
So as I said, yeah, welcome. This is the the quick win supply and demand method, the the new method. Well, I say new method. The the, the new and improved method. And, yeah, it's great to have you here today.

If you don't know, I am Alex Morris. I'm a full time instructor here at the academy and also a full time trader. I I currently live in Perth, Australia. I've been here for now coming up to nearly a month. That's gone really quick.

I think it's 4th July I moved across. So, yeah, that has absolutely flown by it. I have a wife and 3 young boys. It was my youngest boy's birthday yesterday. So we had a nice little trip out.

He he loves animals, managed to touch a shark, which he which he loved. And and, yeah, we, say, yeah, 7, 5, and 2, and they are they are a handful, but, yeah, I do love them to bits. Massive sports fan, so mainly football or soccer if you wanna if you live in Australia. And I'm a big Newcastle United fan. And, Yeah.

Now I live in Perth. Get the opportunity to watch it, a bit later at night, and, yeah, keep up with all the the big matches. Rugby, squash, badminton. I I love all sports, really. The one I really struggle with is swimming.

I really cannot swim. No matter how much I try, I just really struggle. But good for fitness and born in London, gradually moved to the west country. Now that I live in Australia, this is where you're gonna hear some funny words probably coming up my mouth, some different accents. God knows what it's gonna sound like, but hopefully, you'll understand me.

Right. Okay. So let's go on to more of the, let's say, interesting stuff and, less about me and more about the the strategy. So this module is designed to help you learn a strategy that I use on a day to day basis in order to achieve excellent trading results. Not only that, but it's allowed me and my family to do the things that we want to, whether that's go on holidays, support the kids, on very rare occasions, I I must add, and to not worry as much financially when we want to do any fun activity.

So before I actually delve into the strategy, you have to understand that there will be elements within this module that will be difficult to understand initially. It will take time. However, if you stick at it, put the effort in, there's no reason why you can't succeed. Now my tips as we go through this module, don't rush through this. Focus on doing it properly instead of doing it quickly.

And remember, you can come back and repeat this course as much as you want. So so let's dive in. Okay. So in this module, we're gonna break down the supply and demand method of trading into various individual components. Once you've learned, so once you've learned each component, you'll then be in a position where you can trade the supply and demand strategy effectively.

So hope you're excited. I know I am. And here's what you're going to learn. Firstly, identifying supply and demand zones. This will help you identify an entry for a trade.

We then have market sentiment and structure. This will tell you whether price is going up or if it's going down. We have HTF to LTF analysis. This is your higher time frame to lower time frame analysis. This will give you further confirmation and a view as to whether price is going up or down.

Areas of imbalance or balance and where there is aggressive price action. This will help you identify higher probability setups. Retracement back to an area of supply or demand. Now this is gonna tell you how to understand current volatility, which will allow you to protect yourself better when placing a trade. You then have confirmation candles to execute your trade.

This is an additional confirmation as to where price is likely to go next. The relevance of high impact news items because, you know, if you don't get this started in, a profitable trade can quickly ship to to be a losing trade. And then lastly, high probability versus low probability trade setups. This will allow you to make, better trading decisions that will increase your return on the trades that you do actually place. So this is one of the main tools that I use to my.

So why should you learn this? Well, first things first, supply and demand areas are the areas of interest to us as traders because they act as a base, and they confirm if price respects that area or if it doesn't respect that area. So very high level example, demand zones are areas where price is likely to go up. Supply zones are areas where price is likely to go down. This will give you an early indication as to where your future setup is likely to go.

And this, yeah, this basically means that you can develop consistency with your trading because your decisions will have a strong foundation to them. Okay. Now on the next point, they're relatively easy to identify. There are some unique elements which we'll dive into, which will help you identify the stronger or weaker areas of supply demand. For example, you could get to a stage where you've mastered identifying these areas of supply and demand, but fail to see price making higher highs or lower lows.

These small individual elements, they need to marry up in order to provide you the best possibility of a trade going in your favor. And then lastly, mastering this skill will teach you patience because you'll know when to execute and when to remain patient by staying on the sidelines. And why is patience important? Well, I teach you to only trade the high quality setups. This makes your trading simpler, more fun, and gives you way better results.

And yeah, most people can't really achieve or never even achieve a place of of patience for trading. So after you've mastered this module, you should be in a position where you are a more patient trader. Okay. So if you don't study this properly, looks, looks a bit like me when I'm struggling or just trying to get away from the kids. But, it, you know, it's essential that you learn every step of this strategy properly and that you don't skip a step.

Now if you do skip a step or you don't fully understand the element, go back and study it because this is where you may start potentially executing trades or weak trades without actually knowing why. And, yeah, I know from personal experience that I had many setbacks when determining area of supply demand and when to execute. I would actually go through periods of consecutive losses, which was pretty demoralizing. And not even knowing exactly why was, you know, it's quite quite frustrating. So you don't know what you don't know, which is why it's vital that you pay close attention to everything we instruct you to do.

If you study and learn properly and then go on to remain, sorry, remain consistent in your approach and then manage your risk effectively, there's no reason why you can't be successful. And this is where you can really develop your edge by knowing what setups work for you and what setups to avoid. Okay. So just imagine for a moment what it'll be like when you can grasp all the different elements of the supply and demand strategy and maintain consistent growth with every trade taken. You can actually make money from the markets, probably one of the most important factors and probably the reason why you're here.

You will also be able to generate incredible returns even if you have a win rate of only 50%. You see, once you learn how to dial your risk to reward, then you'll have more control over your growth. Now there are many tools that I use to trade. However, this method sits at the foundation of everything I do, and you will have it too. The better you learn this, the better opportunities you have, the later growth.

Also, being able to get over difficult times because there will be difficult times where you just simply don't understand a particular aspect of the strategy, or as I mentioned earlier, you encounter loss after loss. This course will lay that foundation and help you get over those difficult times ahead, gaining control of your psychology as well, and understand there will always be more opportunities. You'll be in a position where you'll feel calmer, more in control as you trade. And, lastly, you'll become patient, disciplined, and learn how to maintain a long term mindset. This will help differentiate you from most traders and enable you to achieve the results that you desire.

Okay. So let's look at some of the key words that you'll need to know as we go through this course. So firstly, supply. An area of supply where market participants are willing to sell a particular asset resulting in a fall in price. We then have demand.

This is an area where market participants are willing to buy a particular asset resulting in a rise in price. We have balance. Now this is where price is consolidating within a specific price range as buy and sell orders are fairly distributed. We have imbalance. This is where there's a greater distribution of buy or sell orders.

Higher time frame, this is where I focus mainly on the weekly and daily time frame to set that initial bias. And then lower time frame, I look at the 1 hour time frame to execute trades. This is where the opportunities arise. And we're not finished there. We've got a few more keywords.

Retracement. So this is where price returns back to an area of supply or demand. This can be either gradual or impulsive. You've got confirmation candles, engulfing, pin bar rejection, and 3 candle swings. So what's an engulfing candle?

This is where bearish engulfing candle forms when price closes below the low of the previous candle, and a bullish engulfing candle forms when price closes above the the high of the previous candle. We now have hidden bar rejections. So this is a candle consisting of 1 bar, which shows, price clearly being rejected at a certain level with an extended wick and a small body less than 50%. And then lastly, 3 candle swing. So the 3rd candle must close above or below the opening price of the first candle, with ideally a clear rejection on the second candle.

We will look at examples of this as we go through the course. Okay. We've got about a 100 more slides to get from keywords. I'm only joking. We are jumping into the tools you'll need for this.

So there's a whole list of tools you'll need, unfortunately. It's just TradingView. This will allow you to conduct your chart analysis and also help you complete, complete the course effectively and help you reach a position where you're actually able to trade. Now some of you may be trading a live account right now. Please don't do that.

It's vital you study before you look at trading options. And we'll looking to open a live account. You know, can't stress that point enough. Trading view is all you need at this point as you begin to learn the strategies. Okay.

So the steps to mastering supply and demand. Now I'm gonna go through each of the steps individually and give you a high level summary, and we'll go through some chart examples to really try and embed the whole strategy step by step. So firstly, this is like a a road map as to what you can expect and the the key steps as part of the process. So firstly, identifying the market structure on the higher time frame. That's your weekly, daily time frame.

Then we need to look at identifying the market structure on the lower time frame. This is the the 1 hour time frame that I use specifically for this strategy. We then need a a narrow consolidation on the 1 hour time frame. Following that consolidation, we need an aggressive move, a bullish or bearish imbalance. From there, we can draw either our supply or demand zone.

We then wait for the retracement. That can be either gradual or impulsive. Do we get a confirmation candle? Do we get an engulfing candle, free candle swing, pin bar rejection from that supply demand zone? And then lastly, setting your stop loss, take profit, and entry, probably one of the most important aspects in terms of risk management and ensuring you maintain consistent growth.

So hopefully, that's clear to everyone. So let's have a look at each of these individual steps 1 by 1. So firstly, identifying the market structure on the higher time frame. So the intention here is to set that initial bias, to go either long, short, or remain patient and stay on the sidelines. And this will help us when we start analyzing the lower time frame in step 2.

So for instance, our bias will be long if price is going up, short if price is going down, or if price is ranging or consolidating. That's where we may want to avoid placing a trade because there's no clear direction trend. This is it is very important because if you fail to establish what the hard time frame structure is, this is where you potentially be executing trades or countertrend trades on the lower time frame. The higher time frame always helps gauge the overall sentiment of a particular asset. You know, are we bullish?

Are we bearish? And as I said, higher time frame, weekly, and daily time frame. So how do you do this step? Well, firstly, you need to open training view and select the FX pair that you wish to focus on. Now my suggestion at the time of this presentation would be to look at the m pairs.

That's generally what I favor at this particular point, rather 2 or 3 weeks bearish sentiment, but they do have clear directional trend. Once you select your pair, for example, the New Zealand yen, this is where you would select the weekly time frame to see how price is trending up, down, sideways. You can also look at the daily time frame to see if your weekly bias is aligned. If it isn't, then it adds more uncertainty to your potential setup on the lower time frame. So always observe price action in the most recent 2 to 3 weeks to actually gauge current sentiment and if it's aligned with the overall longer term trend.

And then lastly, there will be certain asset classes that can be difficult to interpret when it comes to getting that clear bias where price is actually making new highs or making new lows. So a fairly recent example, British pound, US dollar, where if you were to look at the weekly time frame, generally speaking, has been ranging for quite some time within a, specific price range. In this instance, this is where you may want to avoid moving on to step 2 and purely focus on potential higher probability setups with clear directional higher time frame trending price action. So you should be completing step 1 with a clear focus. And as you become more proficient and experienced in doing this, it will only take you, hopefully, a few seconds to establish your initial bias.

Now there may be an urge to actually skip step 1 and jump straight onto step 2, which is the lower time frame because that's where you'll be executing the trades. Please always look at the weekly time frame first. Follow the steps highlighted in this module. So as you can see here, I've just taken an example from New Zealand yen. This was for those of you who are fairly active on the charts, this was prior to the the 2 or 3 weeks, very bearish sentiment where we're down at these levels.

But this is just to show you an example. The bias is extremely bullish, and then when we start drilling down to the low time frame and price action is in line there, it will give us more confidence to a potential trade setup. So overall trend, bullish, last 2, 3 weeks in this example, bullish as well. Right. Okay.

So step 2, identifying the market structure on the lower time frame. So the process is very similar here to step 1, but we'd want to be observing price action on the 1 hour time frame. And this is where we look or we'll be looking to execute either a long or short opportunity. But please note, there are still a number of additional steps that we need to cover before determining this. It's always really important now because if we can reaffirm whether the bias you're establishing the higher time frame, step 1, is being replicated in the lower time frame.

It gives you that that confluence. So how do you do it? Well, firstly, going on trading view, selecting the 1 hour time frame to see how price is trending. Is it going up? Is it going down?

Is it ranging? We then need to go back to the weekly and the daily time frame to see if the 1 hour time frame is aligned. So for example, are both charts actually showing price going up, or is there a difference in structure, a difference in sentiment? So if the lower time frame structure is not aligned with the higher time frame structure, you will have this misalignment in bias. Now you should always favor the higher time frame bias, but you can still take a trade if the higher time frame and the lower time frame bias aren't aligned.

In this instance, this is where risk management is very important. You may wanna reduce your risk because it's likely to not be a high probability setup. And then once you've identified the trend in both the higher time frame and lower time frame, write it down so you can use it as a reference point. That will help solidify your thoughts on paper. You may then move on to the next step.

Just bear in mind that there will barriers when you start determining the lower time frame market structure, such as actually identifying the trend and whether your bias is clearly aligned with step 1. If you face any uncertainty, don't skip the step. Look at other opportunities in the FX market, other FX pairs until you feel comfortable with, each of the points highlighted. And, again, another lovely demonstration here. You can see I'm very creative.

But, yeah, very bullish. This is where we want to be looking at when we get into the next steps, areas of demand, and pairing a potential long opportunities. So there may actually be a temptation to explore different lower time frame options. So 15 minute, 5 minute. My recommendation is to focus on the 1 hour time frame because of the consistent good results that I've achieved.

If you are struggling to find opportunities, remain patient. They will come. You only you only need to identify a few good trades in a month to be profitable. Right. Okay.

Step 3, narrow consolidation on the 1 hour time frame. So in this step, we'll look at the 1 hour time frame, and here, we'll identify where price is actually consolidating in a narrow range. This is your area of balance or why sometimes referred to it as an area of fair value. And I typically define this as a minimum of 2 bars consolidating because this shows a long period of buyers and sellers interacting. If you get one candle, volatility, it just reduces the the, the the probability of a chip potential future setup going in your favor.

So how do you actually do this? First, you need to identify 2 candles consolidating in a narrow range. Focusing on the bodies, you can ignore the wicks. This is your initial area of balance and then your potential area of supply demand. And then secondly, you want that initial aggressive move away from that area of balance.

This will result in imbalance. And, again, this will be discussed in more detail on step 4. But for now, try to see that impulsive move up or down in price. One of the difficulties here is actually trying to establish what balance looks like or how narrow or refined an area of balance should be on the chart. To be honest, there isn't a simple or straightforward answer.

The market is imperfect. However, as you as you progress and start to back test some examples, this is where you'll soon understand how peers of balance can be determined. So you can see here, I've just highlighted some examples, areas of balance. So if you do identify supply demand zone where there's 1 candle before an aggressive move up or down like here, it just carries less validity, because it indicates the potential for more volatile price action if price does retrace back to that area. Okay.

Now step 4, the aggressive bullish or bearish imbalance. So an aggressive move in price can be seen by impulsive move up or down. Now this generally indicates institutional involvement, and this bullish or bearish in balance shows that there is interest at a particular price point. And it's at this price point where we can identify our area of supply demand. So for demand zones, we wanna take a previous bearish candle before the move up.

For supply zones, we wanna take the previous bullish candle before the move down. This will be reviewed in more detail in the next step. There's no exact science or defined rule when it actually comes to identifying a balance. A lot of it, I think, comes from personal, personal interpretation. There are some general guidelines to follow as highlighted, but let's go through the steps and have a look at how we do this.

So on the 1 hour time frame, try to identify this impulsive move following a prior area of balance. So if price goes on to make new highs or if it goes on to make new lows, that will add confluence to a potential setup. So, yeah, this can either be an extended bullish or bearish candle within a short period of time. So within 1 to 3 hours or 1 to 3 candles. You may also get an extreme move, which can be a result of a high impact news item.

This is fine when you actually start identifying your areas and balance. However, you don't want to be holding your positions through CPI, interest rate decisions, or jobs report as your nonfarm payroll. This is at the time of this presentation. Now I appreciate that it can be difficult to steer distinguish what a clear area of imbalance is because there may be instances where you don't actually get an aggressive moving price, but the end result is a winning trade. The important part here is being able to spot the difference between a weak and a strong moving price from an area of supply and demand, which brings me nicely to, my next step.

But before I go to that next step, I'll just show you another lovely diagram. Areas in balance where we're seeing buyers dominate in the bullish market. This is US dollar yen continuation up. So when we're looking at this as well, we don't want to be, executing and holding trades during high impact news events. This is fairly key.

I say fairly. It's very key. Wait for the news to settle, then look to execute if the opportunity presents itself. So, yeah, these are yeah. These aggressive moves can provide great opportunities.

It can provide the base for our supply demand zones. Just in short, if you ever are unclear, go back, study prior price actions, see what movements, you can see where there's a steep rise of fall. You can also use Forex Factory to see if it, coincides with a high impact user. Now before I actually do step 5, which is supply and demand zones, let's do a quick recap. So firstly, step 1, understanding the overall trend.

Are we going up? Are we going down? Step 2, we then have the 1 hour time frame. Is that being reflected? Step 3, we've got areas of balance.

And then step 4, this is where we have our areas or, sorry, aggressive moves in price that imbalance up or down, in this example, and down. We've got there step 5. So step 5, this is actually drawing your supply and demand zones. So when we're actually drawing this, these are areas and remember, these are areas of interest to us because they act as a base. We confirm price respects that area or not.

And, you know, drawing the zone is pretty easy. That is what I would consider the the relatively easy part to how would you do it. So when you're identifying your areas of demand, draw a rectangle from the previous bearish candle before the aggressive move up, ensure you always take top wick to the bottom wick and extend. Supply zones act the same way. It's obviously the opposite.

You draw on a rectangle from the previous bullish channel before the aggressive move down, drawing from the top to the bottom wick and extend. Now in an ideal situation, this is where you want a small refined area of supply demand, a small pocket of fair value. The main reason for this is because it'll help define your risk management, and it'll allow you to execute better risk to reward trade. So rather than a 2 to 1, a potential 4 to 1. Okay.

So I've got some more useful diagrams here that you I'm sure you'll love to see. Hopefully, it gives you a slightly different view than the charts in terms of how you actually identify supply and demand zones. But in this example here, you can see price breaking out a prior area of balance, making new lows with an aggressive move to the downside. In order to identify an area of supply, you wanna take a previous bullish candle before that aggressive move lower. And then when you draw your supplies on a trading view using the rectangle function, extending it to the right, remember, take the bottom and the top of the width and extend.

And then demand zones, you can see here, price is breaking out of a prior balance, making you highs with an aggressive move to the upside. We wanna take the previous bearish candle before price makes ideally new eyes. And then we wanna draw our tomato on trading view using the rectangle function, extending it to the right, taking the top and bottom wick. K. K.

So, hopefully, that's all clear, guys. And then I've just got a demonstration here of balance, imbalance up, and then drawing these demand zones, extending it to the right. And then an example with the supply zones, same story, but we've got a downtrend in market balance, imbalance down, taking the previous bullish candle, extending on trading view that rectangle until we then get a retracement back to an area. Okay. So the next part, gradual versus impulsive retracement.

So I tend to favour a gradual retracement back to an area of supply and demand because it shows a buildup of liquidity. Impulsive moves are more likely to result in a trade setup with, risk management complications because your entry point has a greater chance of closing well above your demand zone or considerably below your supply zone. So you have an extended stop loss. So how would you do this? So with a gradual retracement, look for an extended period where price retraces back to a supply or demand zone.

This could take days, weeks, or months. Remember here, ideally, we want to be focusing on more recent area of supply and demand where buyers and sellers are interacting during that particular daily session. For impulsive retracement, look for quick movements in price within a short period of time within a space of 4 hours, essentially. As soon as price shows us back to an area of supply demand, that is when you finish extending your zone. You don't wanna continue in extending it because this is where you may be, executing trades off an already mitigated zone where price has already entered into that supply demand area.

We only want to focus on where or areas where price reacts off a fresh zone. Touch immediate rejection. And, you know, in most cases, you will see a clear break in price from your supply demand zone. However, there will be times where that break may be very small and insignificant. That doesn't matter necessarily.

I mean, that initially tells me there's not much aggression in the initial setup. But even if it is a small break and you've identified demand zone, prices making higher highs, plus the higher time frame and the lower time frame biases aligned, you have a lot of factors going in your favor. And, you know, you may not have, as I mentioned, that initial impulsive move up. Don't be afraid when it comes to executing these positions if you get the confirmation candle, which we could discuss in the next step. So here's just an example where we have one candle balance, imbalance up, making new highs, and impulsive retracement back to an area demand.

Here, we have a more gradual price making new highs, gradual retracement spanning a couple of weeks, and then confirmation. Okay. So step 7, confirmation candles. So once prices retraced back to an area of supply and demand, we want to wait for a confirmation candle to confirm our entry. So the steps to do this, firstly, once you identify a gradual or impulsive retracement back to a supply demand zone, you need to so you need to observe how price behaves.

Do you get an immediate rejection, or does price begin to consolidate? Is there more, hesitancy? If a confirmation candle forms, this tells us if the, yeah, sorry. If a confirmation candle presents itself, this tells us that there is still intent from the buyers on a demand zone or sellers from a supply zone. There are 3 types of confirmation candle, as I mentioned, engulfing, pin bar rejection, and 3 candle swings.

So engulfing candles, this is where the bearish engulfing candle closes below the lower the previous candle. Bullish is where price closes above the high of the previous candle. Bodies engulfing. Pin bar rejection, candle consisting of 1 bar, which shows price clearly being rejected at a certain level with an extended wick and small body. It's also worth noting here even if you've got a bearish rejection, but it's a bullish candle, I.

E. Green, still valid to potentially take a short opportunity. And then free candle swing. The third candle is where it need those either above the opening price of the first candle. And then for a bearish swing, the price to close below the opening price of the first candle.

And this is where we want to see a rejection in the second candle. You're an indication that that's our early onset that we're potentially now seeing a rejection or a reversal at that level. The free candle swing. So a higher probability setup would require an immediate rejection off that supply or demand zone. So as soon it touches projection.

If the confirmation candle is the 5th candle, for instance, this is where it carries less probability in terms of the trade actually going in your favor. Because any period of consolidation to me shows that the original intent intent from the buyers or sellers, that initial aggressive move that we saw to the upside downside isn't as valid or prevalent this time around. Price is potentially starting to see new areas of fair value. And just a note to remember, the confirmation candle must close above the demand zone or below the supply zone. There will be instances where price closes maybe 1 or 2 pips inside the supply demand zone depending on the confirmation of rejection.

This is where using your own discretion, comes into play whether you want to take that opportunity. But, technically, it doesn't meet all strategy requirements in that instance. And that was the last picture. Sorry. I just got to click.

And then we've got here a a diagram from the of the British pound yen showing you, firstly, a very extended bullish engulfing candle confirmation from that demand zone. We have a pin bar rejection from an area of supply That should be extended a bit lower. Apologies. But pin bar extended wick small body, and then we have a 3 candle swing. Price making euros, and then we get a 3 candle swing from a supply zone.

Extended weight on the 2nd candle closing just below the opening price there. Okay. Step 8, the final step. Setting your stock loss, take profit, and entry. So the final step, this is where we wanna establish where you do actually enter, where you're gonna set your state, your take profit, and where are you gonna set your stock loss?

And this can vary. But the the great part of the supply and demand strategy is that once you become an expert in it, you'll be able to use it to adjust it to different trading styles. So if you've got a more longer term mindset, you may have a more extended stop loss, a greater pit reward. But, yeah, this is where if you prefer to have higher reward trades but spend more time managing them, you can. If you prefer lower award trades, but spend less time managing them as well, you can do that.

But, again, it just it really depends on your lifestyle and what you want personally. So how would you actually do this? So firstly, you want a confirmation candle. But once the confirmation candle has been established on the close, you need to select either a long or short position, on the trading view function. You then want to move your proposed trade setup and adjust it so that you set a minimum of 2 to 1.

So your return is 2 times greater than your risk. Here, you can target recent highs or lows within the past week or an extended profit. However, this might not always be applicable. So for example, if you're in a clear uptrending market where price is making new highs, setting a 2 to 1 is your only realistic option. The third point, the entry will be on the close of the confirmation candle.

Don't wanna be going too early. Don't wanna be going too late. Getting that routine. Point 4, the stop loss can either go a few pips below the supply zone or the recent wick or a few pips below the demand zone or the recent wick. Also, be mindful of recent price action and if there is any recent volatile, price movement through a supply demand zone.

This is where you may wanna adjust your your risk accordingly. And then taking profit will be, as I mentioned, recent highs or recent lows. If there aren't, then you use that 2 to 1 to maintain a good consistent risk to reward. Now when we're looking at risk, don't risk any more than 1% per trade. That is my advice.

Don't exit too early unless there is a high impact news event. You can add to a winning position if there is an additional demand zone forming. Never add to a losing position, though. Let me just repeat that. Don't add to a losing position.

And lastly, don't execute a position of a supply demand zone if price has previously entered it, as I mentioned earlier. You only want to focus on fresh zones where price presents that immediate confirmation candle. And here we have an example of a that free candle swing I showed earlier, entry stop loss in this instance above the supply zone targeting a 2 to 1, breaking those lows. So remember, setting a minimum of 2 to 1, we're anticipating a continuation lower. And this is just to highlight one of the examples when it comes to discounted demand zones and premium supply zones.

So when I say that, you might have a clear uptrending market where you've identified multiple demand zones. In this example, we've got 2. The more deeper retracement is your discounted zone. You've got discounted price, discounted entry, a potential, greater risk reward trade. So when I say discounted demand zone, that's a deeper retracement.

Supply zone works the exact opposite way, but this is a more premium level compared to the level which is down here. So if we get confirmation from that level, this is where we can potentially get very good listener more targeting the lows on the one hour chart. So just to know, make sure that you really internalize each of these steps and that you practice them until you feel comfortable with each of them. So now that you've done, developed a core understanding of the supply and demand strategy, firstly, congratulations. It is probably why I find one of the most powerful methods that I use when I look to trade the markets.

However, there are many other tools that I use on top of this to make money from the markets. But, yeah, it lies at the foundation of many other strategies and processes that I use to trade. Okay. So probably a lot to take in. So we just take a little step back for a moment, and, you know, the quick win is well, this quick win course will give you a solid foundation for success.

However, remember that it's still only the foundation. If we do go on to work together, furthering the academy, what you have learned here will help you digress and dive into some of the other modules in this course. So just a sneak peek. You know, it's not just a supply and demand method. I also look at order blocks.

So if you go on to learn them, you'll be able to walk away from trades and still maintain your confidence in them in terms of the the actual trade sets that go in your favor. Flip zones. So these are designed to give you a deeper understanding of how price behaves, and that allows you to identify changes in market structure. Flag patterns, this will give you a good understanding exactly when to capitalize on a long or short opportunity. So I went too quickly there.

Oh, hopefully, you're going to learn these things at a later date with me. But it's important to remember that when you have learnt or so what you've learned here will give you a foundation for you to develop the necessary expertise as a trader. And how I like to think of it, maybe not the best analogy, but I'm gonna say it anyway. Let's say you have, 10 fingers and toes. You then have or now you fulfill the function of one of your fingers by doing the supply and demand method.

There's still 19 other parts to do before all the components work in harmony. Each finger is important and plays a significant role. And with each module you study, you're closer to having a full understanding of what to do and not to do as a trader. So what you're learning in this course, although it's not everything in the quick win, it's still very powerful. Right.

Okay. So challenges. There are a number of challenges that you need to be mindful of. A lot of difficult situations, I think, and what to do in certain situations. Because there will be instances where you identify a very strong area of supply demand, but price doesn't actually retest it immediately.

So this is potentially a longer term area of supply demand and requires patience and discipline to execute either a long or short position once that retracement and confirmation can reforms on the zone. You may also find that certain strategy requirements aren't actually fulfilled. So the way that you overcome this is to firstly focus on learning what all the requirements are. And then with time, this is where you will find that if perhaps 1 or 2 of the requirements are met. When I say requirements, those those 8 steps, you may still potentially then go ahead with the trade.

But just to start with focus on those high quality setups, and it's also being mindful that you may have the the perfect setup where all the strategy requirements are met, but the trade goes against you. This can happen. Don't let it affect your mindset and make you think that the strategy is a load of rubbish. Accept what the market's telling you. You know, there have been times in my, trading career where I've been in this scenario.

I've walked away in anger, only then to come back to to the chart to see that a long opportunity that failed resulted in a a great short opportunity a couple of hours later. Always being observant of of recent price action. Another challenge is that a confirmation candle forms inside a supply or demand zone. So you see that immediate projection. However, it doesn't actually meet the strategy requirements.

In this scenario, this is where you may want to reduce your risk. If you're only talking, you know, a few pips away from price closing above the demand zone or below a supply zone. Risk and news impact. So understanding the risk associated with each trade taken and having that awareness when it comes to high impact news items, it can be challenging, especially if you're trading multiple FX pairs. There's also a temptation to hold trades through these events, which I personally don't recommend because more of a gamble rather than playing a probabilities game.

It can also potentially lead to further bad habits, disrupting your long term mindset. So so just to summarize, don't trade high impact news events that I mentioned earlier. If you do, this is where the gambling mentality may start to kick in, and you're not actually trading. And then lastly, you'll be I know you'll be urging or really wanting to get started looking at a live account. But, yeah, that temptation needs to be focused or your mindset needs to be focused on studying.

And the way that, you know, I like to think of it is that stick to the process, the process that's mapped out for you in the academy. This means learning the the complete method of trading that I and the other instructors use, then test them properly. This means doing a minimum of 300 trades on a demo account. And then when you're, achieving consistent results of, let's say, 3% for a minimum of 6 months, then you can start transitioning to a live account with a small amount of capital. This is gonna be a challenge.

However, it's that short term work and self control for longer term sustainability. Once you've, understood how to navigate through these barriers, you'll hopefully get a stage where you feel much more comfortable with the whole process and know exactly what to do. Right. So let's look at consistency over the long term. And just gonna give you an example here.

I remember as a child when, yeah, I love my football as I mentioned in the beginning. I was practicing again in the go and I always wanted to do more kick ups each day looking to improve. And, you know, I was determined to do this, and I did go back inside, come rain or shine, until I actually beat my previous day's score. And I got to a point where I was doing over a 1000 kick ups, but I was constantly changing my approach, my technique, and using different body parts to keep the ball up from not touching the floor. So I guess when you compare that to trading, it's a very similar approach in the sense that you need to establish a routine.

What works best for you in terms of day, back test a strategy, keep doing it until you achieve the results you desire. And at the end of the day, review your strengths and weaknesses. What could you have done differently? This is where training law comes into play. So practice, practice, practice.

And it's like of any skill. The more you practice, the better you become. And you can do this by using the practice projects with each module, continuing with your studies, and ensure that you test everything that you learn before moving to a live account. The point is that you need to put the effort in now if you want to succeed and achieve your goals because it won't come easy. And I'm a firm believer that if you put the hard work in now and commitment, it will get you places.

The next point, develop a plan that you can stick to. So for example, spending an hour in the morning and then spending an hour in the evening, studying, practicing will set you up for success. Eventually, that study time will convert into trading time. And, ultimately, if consistency comes with fully understanding the the process, this means studying properly and sticking to the process that we outlined here in the academy. Okay.

So let's go through some of the basic stages of progress as you go through this module and as you go through the quick win supply and demand method. So there are 3 steps or stages. Firstly, beginner. This is where you may potentially struggle to identify the correct supply demand zone. You may find it difficult to establish your bias in the higher time frame.

Therefore, you're looking at ranging markets, and you're executing trends using the incorrect confirmation candle. I mean, it all sounds simple on paper book. It can so easily be done, you know, simple basic mistakes. Intermediate level, this is where you're entering or potentially entering multiple trades off a previously mitigated supply demand zone. Another part is understanding that certain criteria strategy, but you fail to understand key elements leading to inconsistent results.

Another intermediate element is that or when it comes to understanding how to establish a bias on the higher time frame and the lower time frame, but still executing what we class as lower probability setups. And then you'll be at the advanced stage where you can quickly identify high probability setups using discounted and premium zones, know when to remain patient, and maintain consistent profitable returns. And if a trade goes against you, you can quickly identify the next opportunity instead of getting upset. Okay. So I'm gonna summarize everything that we just learned now.

If you feel that anything is unclear, then please feel free to go back and start well, don't feel free. Please do go back and start yet, and don't move until don't move forward until you've actually fully understood it. So the key points you need to remember, firstly, supply and demand zones act as a base and confirms the price respects that area or not. Follow the 8 steps taught early in order to identify the high probability setups. So if your setups don't meet all the steps, there's a greater chance of the trade not going in your favor.

However, you need to use your own discretion to decide whether you will take the trade or not and how you'll manage your risk. So for example, if 6 of the 8 steps are met, risk 0.75 rather than 1%. If you're ever unsure and you only want to execute if all 8 steps are met, then take that approach. It's gonna test your patience as you're not always going to get the perfect setup, but you can still be successful when it comes to, taking lower probability setups. Always ensure that you set a minimum of 2 to 1 for each trade.

You will then have to actively manage your trade, monitor price action, and also be mindful of high impact news events. But 2 to 1 is the minimum that you should be setting when you're looking at opportunities. And appreciate that it will take time to get to an advanced level. But when you are there, you should be achieving excellent results. Okay.

So the next part and the final part is for you to go and practice this. So your goal here is to become competent at everything that you've learned in this module, and achieving this will be by practicing, completing a project, and I'll be going over the project very shortly. But once you complete this project, attach it to the post pin below. This way, you can see and prepare your work with other students. So I'm just gonna open the link for the practice project, and I will talk you through what exactly the requirements are.

Okay. So the aim of this project is for you to identify high probability and low probability trading opportunities from supply and demand zones on 2 FX pairs. So I'm only focusing here or the project focus is to look at the euro yen and euro Swiss. So high probability setups are ones where all the steps in the strategy are met. Low probability setups are where only some of the steps are met.

Now when it comes to duration, it shouldn't take a long it shouldn't take longer than a week, so approximately 3 days on each pair. TradingView is all you need. The steps, just to re just to clarify what exactly it is that you need to do. So euro yen, you wanna select that on tradingview and focus on a 2 month period between the 8th of May and the 8th July 2024. It's a very specific date, very specific time frame.

You then want to identify the market structure on the higher time frame within those 2 months. So the weekly and daily. The third step, identify the market structure on the lower time frame. So what is the 1 hour time frame showing you? Step 4.

And if it's possible, identify a narrow consolidation of price on the 1 hour time frame. The 5th point, identify that aggressive bullish or bearish imbalance in price. Step 6, draw in your supply demand zone. Step 7, identify where there's a gradual or an impulsive retracement back to your supply demand zone. Step 8, do we then get a confirmation candle?

And then step 9, setting your stop loss, take profit, and executing. And then just the final part there, exactly the same process, but you're doing it for Euro Swiss. And I'm going back a couple more years, so I'm focusing on 8th June 8th August 2022. Same process, same steps, just a different FX perm. Now just a note here, ignore any previous supply demands those that may impact trade setup during this period.

So you're only focusing on the start of 8th of the year end, 8th May. You're not looking at a demand zone that's formed in the 4th May and a potential non opportunity on the 10th May, for instance. Focused just from the 8th May. Ignore anything prior to that. And the same for Euro Swiss.

Nothing before the 8th June. Okay. So when it comes to self assessment, we're gonna ignore any high impact news items this time around. Okay? We're just focusing on the strategy.

And the reason why is just to get an understanding of this individual steps, your high probability, and low probability setups. Once you've identified your setups, go back through them, tick off whether each of the steps have been met. If it hasn't, try to see why and what was the end result. Now you're not always gonna get the perfect setup where each step is met as it should be. You need to try and evaluate whether you would realistically take that trade or not in a live situation.

Now once you complete the project, please take screenshots of your setups and compare them to the answer sheet below. So I provide an answer sheet, which I won't share now, But when you do the project and then go through the answer sheet, yeah, these are the the answers I provided, I've gone through examples of high property setups and low property setups. Now your take on what is a low probability setup may be different to what I would class as a low probability setup. However, you know, mostly, the answers should all be captured in there. If you ever have any questions within that 22 month period, please do let me know.

But, yeah, that that that should cover all queries, any questions you might have when it comes to identifying setups, identifying trade setups. And then lastly, post your results in the the practice project beneath the module video. This can be in a written or a Loom format. Have a look at other students' project submissions. And if you're really struggling, please do reach out to me for any feedback.

Okay? So with that said, I will see you in the next module and the next live session.
