
Hello, everyone, and welcome to the continuation method. Firstly, I just wanna say that it's great to have you on board within the academy and that I look forward to working with you and to, you know, see how you progress on what will be an incredible journey. So before we get into the course and look at the strategies I use, I wanted to give you a brief introduction about me, why I'm here, and more importantly, how I can help you achieve results I've made throughout my trading career. So just a little about me. My name is Alex Morris.

I currently live in Bristol in United Kingdom. I have a wife and 3 young boys. I love all sports, mainly football. I'm a big Newcastle United fan. And some of my other interests include property where I lived in a a doer-upper.

So basically, that the property was completely renovated from knocking down walls, rewiring, plumbing, you name it. And I tell you that was a very stressful period more so than, you know, in trading in my opinion. I also love to travel. So some of my favorite countries include Slovenia, Thailand, and New Zealand. And a few of my so called special talents well, I like to call them special talents.

Is that I claim to know all the capital cities in the world. I ran the national athletic championships of 400 meters. And I can also do the worm, which is a dance move for those of you who don't know. And I was born in London. I've gradually moved west, and now I've started to develop a a Bristolian country accent, you may notice.

And that mix with with Cockney can be very difficult to understand, so I do apologize in advance. That handsome man on the far left is myself and that very lucky lady sitting next to me is my wife. And, we're enjoying a meal at the the Shangri La in London, which I definitely recommend for the food and views. And then you have my my 3 boys from left to right. So Hudson, Jordan, Ted, They are all very good at testing my patients.

1 of the key modules in this course, by the way. But they are may you know, they're they are my main driving force, and they give me that extra motivation. So I want to succeed so they can live better lives. So why am I giving you my successful strategy? Well, there are a few reasons.

It brings me joy to see you achieve excellent results from a strategy that I've developed. I actually get more enjoyment from that than I do see my own personal account grow. I want to share my success that I've achieved with the wider community and the joy that it brings, not just financially, but also other internal and external benefits, such as less stress and being able to spend time with friends and family. I also want to elaborate the fact that if you have a full time job, you can still succeed in trading. And And this method of trading was developed so that I don't miss time with my family.

Now when I first started out, I was I was doing just an hour a night before bed and bringing in consistent returns. This can also work perfectly for you if you have a full time job like myself. It also brings simplicity to the complexity of this skill. So to me, trading isn't actually difficult. As long as you have a solid strategy, a good work ethic, and you don't let your emotions get the better of you, there's no reason why you can't be successful.

And that is why I want to help those who may find themselves struggling with no clear direction. And, you know, regardless of where you are in your trading career, I want to give all skill levels a concise and easy to follow strategy. As a beginner, it can be quite daunting and overwhelming to understand the markets as there are so many different elements. However, what I aim to provide is that concise, easy to follow process which you can use any time of day. So how my trading brought me here?

It took me many years to master what I do now. And, admittedly, at first, it didn't come naturally. However, over time, I've been able to get proven results consistently, continuously improve my analytical skills, acquire broad knowledge across multiple markets, and utilize technical and the fundamentals to support it, and understand and control emotions that comes with every single trade. And for me, this was the toughest. I now just wanna move on to some of my results.

So what you can see here is an extract from my broker account summarizing my financial returns over a 1 year period, that being between April 22 to April 2023. So on the left, this shows a net return including fees of £87,000 465. Sorry. £87,465. So to put that into perspective, this is a 87.4% return on investment across 1 year.

And the extract on the right, this is over a 4 month period, and this shows a total return of £16,735 including fees. Now the reason why I'm showing you these results is to highlight what can be achieved. It won't be an easy journey. I can show you that. But with hard work, dedication, you can put yourself in a very good position over the long term.

And then following on from those yearly results, I've just shown an extract of the month after. So this is from, covering the period of May. And as you can see, a a total return of £4,641 including those fees. And, again, this is the month after that. So this is in June.

So you can see another consistent return of just over £4,000. And then a slightly better month. This is the month after. So this is in July. We're now looking at a net return of £6,377 for the month in July.

And then just moving on from those monthly results, again, just to kind of put it into perspective and what can be achieved in a day by applying the various strategies that I cover throughout the course. So you can see a summary of different trades that I've I've executed on and some of the results that I've I've achieved. And, again, some more results just within a 24 hour period. And again, you can see more results. A number of trades I've closed again within a 24 hour period.

And here I've just summarized some more recent trades as well that I've taken at the time of this recording. Again, a mixture of different asset classes, predominantly forex pairs. But, again, you can see some of the results that I've achieved. And then a nice summary of some of the FX pairs I've traded using the various strategies, whether that be supply and demand, order blocks. So a nice consistent return there.

So within this course, you'll be learning various methods that leads to wealth, happiness, and freedom. Now you won't get rich overnight, but you will be building the foundations to get there. You'll be able to look at your account and know that you'll make enough money to retire, look after your family, and take trips wherever and whenever you like. Yeah. And trading has provided an additional source of income for me and my family.

And it's meant that we can afford to spend it on more holidays, which means more time together. And in some cases, I place trades during my vacation, which has covered the cost of holiday. It provides that extra sense of security and comfort that you can enjoy yourself and not worry about the financial implications. On top of this, my wife and I, we now spend a lot more time together ever since I started making money consistently from trading. And we're able to do things we enjoy such as spa days, time with friends, you know, going to the pub for a few drinks and meals out.

And we can, you know, afford to pay for things such as babysitters to look after our kids. And I know it may seem small and insignificant in comparison with luxury holidays, but it makes such a difference to us. And as I mentioned earlier, I work a 9 to 5 job, which brings in a steady income, but there is far less stress and pressure on me because I know that I have trading funds to provide for my family. So once you've mastered everything I know, I'm confident you'll be able to produce the financial returns that I've shown you on the previous slides and achieve the things like this in your life too. But there's more.

So your ability to control your emotions in various scenarios improves considerably as you begin to program yourself in such a way that keeps you more level headed. And this will start feeding into your day to day life as you start to make better and more informed decisions. You may not know it now, but the analytical approach you apply to trading can be transitioned across your daily tasks. I know from personal experience that I approach life in a much more calm and relaxed manner, and this is far, or there is far less stress involved. A lot of the you know, this is down to my involvement with trading.

I've become more resilient due to the various ups and downs I've encountered throughout my trading career. And I now view any setback as a challenge. I'm striving to achieve the best that I can do, and so should you. But, ultimately, as you embark on this journey, you'll soon realise how you grow as an individual and the positive impact it has on others around you. And at the time of doing this presentation, there's a, you know, there's a cost of living crisis in the UK with high levels of food inflation, utilities, and interest rates and mortgages.

Now I'm in a very fortunate position where these potential setbacks for a lot of people don't impact me in a negative way because the successful trading career that I've built has enabled me to combat these, you know, these obstacles and also relieve the stress on my my loved ones. So let's now dive into the core aspects that make up my course. So you'll go through 3 chapters during this process, the discovery chapter, the development chapter, and then the expansion chapter. So you'll have a comprehensive understanding of the different methodologies that I use, which is mainly consistently profitable over time. And you can apply this to multiple FX markets at a convenient time for you.

I feel the techniques that I teach will not only add value but are unique in their approach. So the discovery chapter. So the goal here is to lay a foundation. Here, we'll dive into some of the core components that are essential in order to get you set up for success. So firstly, the quick win.

So once you've developed a solid understanding of this strategy, not only will you be able to yield excellent results, but it will ease you into other strategies discussed later on this course, such as order blocks. We'll discuss everything you need to know from identifying areas of supply and demand to executing trades based off a confirmation candle. Then you'll learn about me and how I make trading work for me. You can take some of the my learnings and then apply it to your day to day trading. As I work a a 9 to 5 job, I have to put a plan in place which allows me to focus my attention solely on trading at specific times of the day.

This helps ensure consistency from the very beginning of your trading career. Another important aspect I will cover is the psychological element and how discipline, patience, and risk management can enhance your profitability. And then finally, I'll discuss how you can build your edge in the markets by finding those higher probability trades. So the key here is that we want to differentiate ourselves from other traders and what they may potentially be thinking. So this also pivots back to the psychological aspects I touched on a second ago.

So in the development chapter, you'll get a proficient understanding of the skill. So the aim here is to build on what you have learned so far in the discovery phase and expand your knowledge across multiple concepts. This starts with understanding how certain types of analysis, whether that's technical, fundamental, or mechanical can be used in combination to your advantage when placing trades. Developing a broader understanding of the FX markets and what it is you are trading. This includes covering the core terminology, the different trading sessions, how they overlap, and determining which FX pairs will be best suited to you.

And then with a clear trading style defined, we begin to shift our focus towards time frames as you gain knowledge around how higher time frames can add confluence and a more coherent bias to your lower time frame analysis. And then with these key skills embedded, we'll then look at how fundamentals can impact your thinking and how you approach certain trades. So CPI, interest rate decisions, and PMI prints are some of the items that should be on the top of your list. If you wanna take a more relaxed approach to trading, then you have to look no further than the mechanical strategy. Here, we have a 39% return on investment in the past year for 30 seconds of work, essentially.

So not too bad. And then we'll move on to the expansion chapter. So you become more proficient here with your skill as the foundation has been laid correctly, and this is when your results will start to flourish. So we'll delve into the detail behind the strategies I use whilst building your knowledge across various areas of the FX market from technical to what institutional traders look at. We'll then look at identifying flag patterns, and this will be our starting point in order to establish a solid bias and a higher time frame.

And it can also act as a platform to execute other strategies such as supply and demand. We'll then look at the 3 main confirmation candles I use, and we'll look at that in detail, which gives you a good indication that price wants to either continue its recent trend or signal a potential reversal. Moving on to order blocks and identifying specific areas in which there have been prior institutional involvement whilst using multi time frame analysis to provide confidence and more refined entry, stop loss, and take profit. When also building our existing knowledge of supply and demand and how supply and demand can quickly flip to provide you with a more robust and dynamic approach. And then finally, I'll discuss various concepts concepts such as liquidity and imbalance and how they can be identified on the chart.

So once this has been understood, we can begin to implement it to various strategies and thus manage our trades more effectively. So to become a successful trader, you must never give up. So understand that there will be tough periods in your trading career. Focus. Stick to a rigid plan, which gives you a you know, which gives you clarity on each trade, and remove the emotional attachment.

And this is one of the trickiest skills to develop as all of us want to make money. Now you want to be someone who is determined, someone who listens and applies what they have learned on a consistent basis, patient, and someone who takes the Academy's core values to heart, which are process focus, so focuses on the steps that lead to results, taking each one with laser focus determination. Coherence, this acts in harmony with their thoughts, words, and actions. Doesn't just talk about what they want to achieve, but takes action to make it happen. Sacrifice understands that to achieve your objectives and pursue further education in the academy, you must be willing to make sacrifices like time and resources to achieve your goals.

Collaboration understands that working together towards a common goal gives you a sense of community that your collective efforts will lead to great success. And then finally, the long game. You understand that success requires resilience and a commitment to sticking with it for the long haul. So the 3 biggest barriers you'll face are, firstly, overtrading. So it can be easy to trade too much, whether you're on a good streak or encountering loss after loss.

Knowing when to stop is key in order to main in order to maintain that longevity. You'll notice when you you are over trading because your strategy isn't considered, it's thrown out the window, and you ultimately develop a a gambling mentality. There are a few simple ways to overcome this. Firstly, just walk away from the screen. Go and do something you enjoy, whether that's seeking the nearest punching bag or spending time with your loved ones.

Secondly, not sticking to a plan or strategy. So you can quickly find yourself deviating sorry, deviating away from your original plan or strategy. So this may be due to a conflicting view you see on the chart, which results in you exiting your trade. Now this may be okay to a certain extent. But if you find yourself cutting your winners too frequently and letting your rust losses run for too long, then ultimately, you're not sticking to a strategy.

Consistency consistency is key here. And what I aim to provide in this course is a structured approach to combat this. And then the 3rd barrier, letting your emotions take control. So this encompasses both points I've just discussed. The psychological aspects can be a considerable barrier if not treated appropriately, and this can range from stress to greed to fear of missing out.

But with time, practice, experience, you'll become less emotionally involved because you can see the bigger picture. Just remember to keep in mind, if you're able to stick to a strategy and not deviate away from it, then you're onto a winner. It sounds simple, but controlling your emotions can be extremely tricky. You need to understand that your mental health can be affected negatively if you set monetary goals. So for instance, I plan to make £300 a day.

This is the wrong mentality. Instead, focus on a trading plan. For instance, what is the worst case scenario if I take this trade? Am I applying effective risk management technique, which will ensure that I remain consistently profitable? For me so for me, I really benefit from exercise, especially if I'm going through a rough patch in trading as it takes my mind away from it.

I enjoy going to the gym and playing any sports, and I strongly recommend it if you find yourself staring at the screen too much. For example, if I've had a rubbish day or morning trading, rather than get angry or upset about it and begin to revenge trade, I go to the gym to relieve stress, and I come back with a refreshed and clearer mind and, ultimately, better results. So now it's time for you to go and practice this. And as you go through this practice project, ask yourself, am I following the instructions properly? How can I practice even more to really dominate this?

And are there any areas of weakness that are showing? Remember to share your projects with your fellow students in the Legacy Student Hangout room. So your practice project. So here, the project goal, we want to establish what you're actually looking for in trading in order to become successful. So everyone has different definitions when it comes to success, whether that's monetary or pure enjoyment you get from developing a skill.

So this shouldn't take you more than a couple of days to draw your conclusions, a notepad, pen, and your imagination. That's all you need. So let's go through some of these steps. So firstly, list out the specific factors you feel are important in helping you become a successful trader. There isn't a right or wrong answer.

The intention here is to get you thinking in terms of what you want out of trading. So some examples to get your mind racing, risk management, a trading plan, consistency, managing your trades, knowing when to take profit, understanding the markets, an effective strategy, a high win rate, Taking plenty of trades. Taking very few trades. Compounding your profits. How much money you make each month.

Having a good work life balance. Using your winnings to improve your lifestyle. For example, more holidays. Patience. Discipline.

Or work ethic, and how many hours you put in. So once you've got all covered step 1, the next step is to then prioritize those factors from top to bottom. So would you say risk management is the most important to you, followed by a trading plan, consistency, and effective strategy, and then managing your trades? I've just taken 5 examples there. As I said, there's no right or wrong answer to this.

It's how you feel will what factors will be required in order to for you to become successful. So then step 3, why do you feel these are important? So just looking for a one line comment. So for example, risk management is the most important to me because it will help maintain longevity and preserve my capital. And then step 4, as you progress throughout the course, remember that this list and see how it develops.

So as you get towards, I mean, the middle or the end of the course, do you start feeling or have stronger feelings towards having a trading plan? And that's, you know, that's more important to you than risk management. And then once you identify the following steps, ensure that you've taken a photo or screenshot of your finished project in order to review and improve. And then lastly, share your work with your fellow students and give feedback on other student practice projects. You can also submit your questions in the question session session if you are unsure about anything.

Now the next step is to jump into the 1st module, and here you'll begin your journey. I can't wait to see how you progress and see the results you achieve.
