
So in this video I want to give you an introduction to both myself and the course. It's a pretty extensive course and I want to run you through the elements of that, and introduce you to a little bit of a background about me as a trader and where I've come from and the experience I've had trading the market. So let's get to it. This is me and my wonderful family. I am based in the UK and I've lived here all my life.

This is my wife, Claire and my eldest boy or older boy, Theo and this is Xander, stood on a box to try and make himself look taller. Absolutely just I live, well, everything I do is for my family and anybody that knows me is is fully aware of that, and it's allowed Tradem's allowed me to have a lovely life with them and spend a lot of time with them. So I've been trading since, 2007, so 16 years as I record this video now, and it is and it has been a bit of a an unusual journey. Let's put it that way. I'm sure you all have very similar journeys to tell but this is mine.

It started 16 years ago. Can you imagine what it was like 16 years ago? If you haven't actually been trading very long, then it was a very different world in those days. There's very little information, and I was pretty much left on my own to figure things out. I was an IFA at the time, so an independent financial adviser.

The the thing with being a a a financial adviser, advising on traditional investments, is that you're reliant on them going up in value to give your clients a decent return in money or even my own money for that matter. And when I found out about trading, I realized that it was actually possible to make money when assets go down as well as up. Now that seemed like it was too good to be true and I needed to know more, and that's really what got me hooked on trading. So, I've made all the mistakes you can possibly imagine when I first started. It was difficult journey for a start.

As I discovered new indicators, I added them into my chart and I thought more was better. As a trade went wrong, I found an indicator that would actually have been filtered out that trade, so I added that in. And before you know where you are, you know, we had a a screen full of indicators, and I didn't know what I was looking at to be quite honest. So usual things that I'm sure some of you have gone through as I say before. And I was encountered well, I went into the cycle of doom, which is where I was doing a lot of work, back testing, came up with a strategy that I thought would work.

As I traded it live, it's it was okay for a while and then had a losing run and I lost faith in it and binned it and went back to the drawing board, found another strategy, started trading that, had seen that I got a losing run, binned that, and and and it's a cycle that repeats itself many many times. And, yeah, I call it the cycle of doom, and it is. If you you can just keep on doing this forever and never get anywhere. I was also buying indicators. I thought that, maybe if I spent money buying indicators that would give me an advantage.

Sure. They've got to be better if it's cost me money to have the indicators. I even bought, which obviously is nonsense, but, but I didn't know that at the time. I bought a Yay's, so expert advisors to trade automatically for me. I thought that was the way forward.

How great would that be if I didn't even have to be in front of the charts? But again, failed miserably with that. I was searching for the holy grail. It just it just seemed to be, something that was achievable for some reason, you know, and I I was actually believing that this holy grail existed where I had to do very little work and and rewards would come heaping in very, very quickly. But of course, that's not the case.

And, yeah, there's so many more. I was emotional trading, closing trades randomly and all sorts of things. But, yeah, I'm sure some of this will resonate with, a lot of you. You know, you, you know, reading this now have probably been through some of these, journeys, you know, with some of these problems that I encountered. But after 2 years, despite all of this, I managed to become I say consistently profit profit profitable, but it I was profitable.

Yes. But it wasn't enough. I wasn't actually making a lot of money. I was making consistent amounts of money but it just wasn't enough to support my family which is what I required. I had 4 strategies that I was trading at that time and all of them were were profitable but only by a little bit and, you know, it just it just wasn't enough to pay the bills so it was a it was a problem, something had to change.

And what changed was that I started to really detail out a logbook. I I I logged every single trade that I did and I I put a lot of detail down on that those trades, so that I could review them. When I had 4 different strategies, it was difficult to really see the wood for the trees, which one was working, which one wasn't, what was really happening, whether I was at cross purposes with trades. I could be buying an instrument instrument with one strategy and selling it with another. Was that right?

I don't know. You know, it was really really I was a bit all over the place. Despite that, I wasn't actually making a little bit of money, so I thought, well, this has gone up. I've got to find a way of actually improving this. And I recognized in myself that I was closing trades early, that was the big flaw of mine.

I knew that I had a propensity to close a trade earlier, rather than let it hit its take profit or its stop loss. I had a little bit of fear involved, maybe even greed didn't want to lose the profits that were there, whatever it was, whatever the reasons were, they weren't good ones and they weren't consistent ones. And so what I did in that log book is book is put one column that was for the result of the trade that actually happened and another column was for when I sorry, if I had left the trade alone and let it hit stop loss or take profit and see what the difference was between them and wow. Eye opening to say the least. The difference in the results was to say the least significant.

It I would have been much, much better just to leave the trade alone, let it hit its take profit or its stop loss rather than fannying around, moving the stop loss down to break even, or even pushing it back. Sometimes when I really believe that the trade was gonna reverse and go in my direction, you know, or cutting a trade short, a winning trade because I was fearful that the next the next sort of reversal would come in and, and wipe out all those profits that I was seeing. Yeah. It absolutely was an eye opener and I had a lot of information to go back. I had 6 months worth of, of logs of trades.

Well actually it's a little bit less, but nearly 6 months worth of trades that I analyzed and that's a lot of trades and the difference was enormous. So, I looked more carefully at it and I found one of the strategies was a bigger differential than the rest and would have been uber profitable, had I just let it go to take profit or stop loss. And so I made the decision there and then to stick with that strategy and just trade that one strategy and let the profits run, go into take profit or let the stop go until it hits. Let the price go into the hit stop loss and my life changed forever. I just did that for 18 months thereafter and it just was, I I I trade nothing else.

It was just purely the head and shoulders strategy which is the main one on this course that I'm gonna describe, you know, and then and you're gonna take now and enter into. It it just changed my life. I could pay the bills at the end of the month. I didn't have to worry about it. My wife could stop work.

I could be there for the kids full in the knowledge that their, you know, food, clothes, education was all paid for. So a massive massive difference to my life. But then, as time moved on, jumping forward a little bit, had a, you know, had a lovely life going by, making enough money, enjoying the trappings of of success, I suppose you'd call it within the trading world. But it's a lonely place and in 2017 I decided to just see really where I fit in this world of trading. I knew I was making enough money but but I could still see other traders in the city that were flying around in private jets and things like that.

So was I any good? Didn't really know. So I put myself up. I decide to compete with other traders. And I wanted to well, what happened was my FX book, monitored all our accounts and there were 100 of us, absolutely 100 of us.

We all started with £10,000 in a live account and traded within strict rich risk management guidelines. You know, my FX book put very very strict rule rules on this and, very similar to funded trader rules And we all traded the same, account size and within these parameters so you couldn't get just crazy results. And in a short time, I found that I was in the top ten, which pleased me. And because as I say there were 100 and 100, maybe even into 1,000 at, at one period. Then after 4 months, I was actually ranked number 1.

Now that, if you can imagine, gave me an enormous amount of confidence. This is, a screenshot I took of when I did actually achieve the number one spot. This is me here, r two m pro, it stands for reversion to mean and r two m does anyway, and, that is me achieving the number one spot. I've grown the account by 63.1% over 4 month period. And as you can see a lovely equity curve on the account, very very straight line, very minimal draw downs, and, you know, a successful, trading a few months.

And it was good enough to be, as I say, at the number one spot. Enormous, enormous confidence came from this, and it got me noticed. I've started to get a lot of, you know, people that were were interviewing me amazingly enough. Yeah. This is great.

It doesn't happen to me. This is this is madness. And I got requests to manage people's money. I got requests to mentor people. And I didn't really know where to go on this.

So I was quite happy in my world of trading but, but I actually did decide in the end to mentor a, 3 individuals. They're based in the UK. All very raw and new to trading, and I felt like I could add a lot of value to them. They weren't too intimidating for me to teach, you know, that they haven't got their own tricks that they'd learned over the years and, were gonna contradict me all the time. They would hopefully listen to what I had to say.

And, and it was and it was an amazing journey. Now, well down the line now, they are well, 2 of them are full time traders. So they actually after 2 years of working with me, on a daily basis, they were in a strong enough position to be able to go full time and they built on that as well, and they are at least as good as I am now. They are very comfortable, comfortably off, very very good traders, that I am delighted to say that, you know, that well, I took a huge pride in their in their progress. The third is still working as a finance director.

They did never change their job, never did become a full time trader but they didn't really need to do. They had a fantastic job anyway, earning very high 6 figure salary, but they love trading. They love doing that and they still do it now. He he still, trades and gets an extra income from it, which gives him a buzz and he still gives me a buzz as well. So, you know, I've really enjoyed the teaching.

I've really enjoyed the progress that seeing, you know, turning a a fledgling sort of trader into, a good trader. And seeing develop over the years was was really rewarding. There's no other feeling like it. And to let, you know, have them achieve their dream, which their dream at the start was to become full time traders. That's the 2 that have become.

They both achieved it. Now how good is that? It's it's terrific. It was their hard work with a little bit of help from me, but it was fabulous, fabulous feeling to, to to have that happen anyway. So so this led really so when Zac and Peter, approached me and asked me to deliver a couple of webinars for the Trading Cafe, when it was really new, really new at the time, so, sort of August, September time last year, I had no hesitation in accepting.

I loved the concept of the cafe at that time and I still do today. It is a truly unique place within the industry. Now these webinars that I did seem to go down quite well. I mean you you may well have seen 1 or 2 of them and that and that resulted in me taking a bigger role in the trading cafe and then the the trading academy. Now this ultimately led to this course where I now will share my knowledge and techniques with you.

Now applying the exact methods detailed in this course produce results like these. I'm not a big one for sharing results, I feel a bit embarrassed to do so but I think it's important that you see how just following these methods you can actually be extremely profitable. So this is just one 24 hour period where, I closed out 8 and a half grams worth of, trades. I had a £20,000 day and that happened in December, was it? When was it?

Sorry. It was in March this year, March 2023. This is that was actually live in one of the live sessions I was doing, with the, the cafe. I, had to cut off short because things have moved so strongly and nicely in my direction that I, had to close down some trades to to bank some profits, and that was done live. So people saw me actually bank 20,000 in a day, which was one of my bigger days.

Yeah. I think it was certainly in the top 10 of biggest days I've ever had, and it was nice to do it when other people were sort of witnessing it. I while I was mentoring, I did do, something which, was a bit of fun. Well, it's a bit of fun. It's serious fun, if it can be.

Apologies that you probably can't see all of this but it, it's a a live account that only had I think just less than £3,000 in it it starting in, it was the 21st January 2022. And I the the show was a trade log. This is directly off the broker account and sorry you're just flipping through an awful lot of it, but this is all of the trades that were taken within that period until 9th March. Now a bit more of an interesting one is this. It started with £2,722 in it, the account and then this is how the balance of that account changed over time.

And as you can see it started to grow quite quick and I was reasonably aggressive around this. I didn't trade this on a 1% per trade rule, which I normally do because it was such a small account. I did squeeze it a bit more than that and, and so it built a little bit quicker than it would do normally. But as you can see we've got this balance now gone up from 2,007 to got up to 7,000 there. That was in, 10th February.

So just, you know, a couple of weeks later we're up to we're at 7,021,700. I was quite prolific with the trading as you can see a lot of trades taken. But it was almost like an exercise to see what we could do with it. Also, what we could do, what I could do, but I was demonstrating it to the the, you know, the guys that I was mentoring at the time. And just built and built and built and built and built, until we got into the middle of March.

So 10th March, when I closed down the, the exercise. So I've built the account up to 23,000 over £23,000 in that period. So taking it from 2,700 to 23,000 in 2 months, less than 2 months. Quite I was chuffed with that. It was, it was an exercise which was quite, aggressive as I say, and this is the summary of it.

So you can see the growth as as it happened. Fairly smooth, I suppose, curve going up. And this gives all the information here which you'll see if you've ever printed out a report from a brokerage. This is an m t four brokerage I've got, and it shows all the information there on it. The one I'm most proud of is this one.

This profit factor here, anybody that knows anything about that. A profit factor of 1 means that you're breaking even. A profit factor of 1.5, 1.6, somewhere around about there means you've got a good strategy, one that's working well and is profitable. Anything 2.0 to put 2.5 is pretty darn good to say the least. I mean that's pretty much exceptional and anything above that is crazy.

This is miles above it. This is nearly at 7. Now that is very very unusual and something I am, rather proud of. So that that was a small account. To give you an idea about what happens on a, a bigger account, then I will show you that now.

It is here. Right. Okay. So this don't worry. I I don't mind sharing you the details of what the account was because it doesn't exist anymore and I'll tell you why it doesn't exist anymore.

It's because the beggars closed me down. They actually kicked me out. Now this has happened 3 times in my trading career. Just brokers don't like, and beware of this, don't like traders to be too profitable, and they will close you down if they feel like you're just gonna take them for to the cleaners basically. And this one was a fairly aggressive well not aggressive account, this is a big account or bigger account that I, well no, it actually wasn't this one wasn't a big account.

This one I I actually put £35,000 into it over a period of, you know, a short period of time and, and then grew it and just grew it. And so I'll skim down this first bit because this is all the individual trades which you don't need to see and then you can see some of them but you can see the profits that are being made and sometimes the losses as well. But, oh, there's quite a lot of trades on. This is at the back end of last year, so 2,022. Again, this is brokered generated report, so there's lots of information on it that, we don't need to see.

It's just telling you the orders have been filled, when they were and how much and what have you, whether it's a partial fill or or whatever. But, right. We'll get through this eventually, so bear with me. And we come to eventually, he says, we come to the exciting bit. So this is where we started in £3,000, so another small account, but I added to it.

I added £35,000 to it fairly quickly, so it's 38,000 was in the account, after put my last 5 in, which is a bit further down yet. There. That's it. And it was up to 47 by that time, so I've made sort of 10,000 profit on the account very quickly. And if we see if we work way our way down, see how it grew and developed.

I was trading this correctly. So you can see the incremental saw growth on 1% or 2% as an absolute maximum on any trade, and any one so 2% risk on any one trade. And it built and built and built and built and built until we got to the stage a few months later. It's only 3 months later when they closed me down. Let's see.

Yes. Still got a bit further to go yet, so we're into November about 84,000 at this time. Still building. No more money's gone into the account at all. I'd get to a 100,000.

Well, that's on the 1st December. Now this flagged. This was when I started to get phone calls through, to me asking me what I was doing, where I was getting my information from, and all this, And I started to realize that they're not liking it too much. So, I hoped I would just better ease through it and fend them off. Because I told them the truth.

It was just me trading, you know, and that and, I'm sure things will start to go wrong soon. I've tried to convince them of that, but knowing it probably wouldn't. But anyway, that's by the buyer. I negotiated a while with this brokerages to get really good condition and I was rather annoyed. But yeah up to a 120 odd 1,000 when they closed me down, and this was the trade history, so this trade sorry trade summary of it.

Total net profit was 84,000 over a period of 3 months or 3 and a bit months it was. Profit factor incredibly high again, really pleased with that, lovely equity curve going up. So I just thought I'd share that that information with you. I don't if you like doing things like that, but you do need to see and and have faith in what I'm gonna tell you because the the profits that were generated, on these accounts were done in exactly the same way as I'm gonna teach you in the course. So no difference.

So if if it's done here, if you follow the methodology and learn how to do it properly, you can get the same results. You know, there's nothing special about me at all. I just follow a set of rules and I do it consistently and time and time again and it generates these sort of results. So let's get, continue with the little the introduction. So your financial future, that's what I'm bothered about.

Let's try and get you into a position where you're making money over a period of time, and that's the whole idea about this course. So now whilst you're first studying, you'll probably remain in your full time job. You know, you need to better pay the bills in some way. Very few people are better just go into this full time. I understand that.

And so the idea is that you'll become competent enough in the quick win strategy, the first strategy you're gonna learn, fairly quickly to be able to supplement your job income with a small amount of trading income. Now this will give you a lot of confidence and a little bit of extra income never hurts anyway, does it? But that should be in that should be entirely possible within a few months of taking them, you know, going through the course because the quick win, strategy is relatively straightforward and very consistent, so you will be able to be profitable reasonably quickly. So when you've actually completed your journey through the academy and through my full reversal method, you'll be in a position to be able to take full financial control of your life. Now think about that that's full financial control of your life.

No reason why you can't. You'll have the skills and temperament to thrive in any trading environment. You know, freedom to be your own boss. You're not dependent on your job that you've got at the minute for any future financial security. You'll be protected against threat of redundancy or the fact that that company might go under through no full fault of your own.

You'll be flexible with your time and be free to work pretty much anywhere. You might not want to live where you are now, but you feel like you need to do because your job's there. You can live anywhere and trade as long as you've got a Wi Fi signal that's pretty robust. You'll be able to enjoy the trappings of this newfound wealth. You know, buying the cars that you want and the house of your dreams.

I mean, this sounds a bit like pie in the sky, but it's absolutely true. And we'll show you exactly how to do that step by step. We don't just stop at just teaching you the strategy. It take we take much, much more than that, and I'll go into detail about that in a minute. Now I've enjoyed it.

I've enjoyed, you know, the the success that trading has brought. We've got a lovely lifestyle, 2 lovely, you know, great cars on the drive, and, you know, 1st class luxury holidays that we go on and that, and that's all through trading and these methods. But even better than that is you'll be there for your family. You'll be able to enjoy them to the fullest. Your health, don't underestimate this.

If you've got a stressful job that's pulling you left, right, and center in all sorts of directions, your health can suffer. You cannot underestimate how being financially free and relaxed will positively impact your health, both mentally and physically. Imagine what you feel like to have the freedom to live life based on your values, your schedule, your goals, all without being told what to do by anybody else. No longer will you have the daily stress associated with constant financial worries or work pressures. And, generally, happy, content people live healthier and longer lives.

It's a fact. It's well known. Your relationships, just imagine this for a second. Your family, friends, and peers will change when you are positive, confident, happy, and content. Your relationship with them will change.

Your family and friends will love being around you, and your peers will positively gravitate towards you. You'll exude a confidence and garner respect wherever you go. You'll have the freedom to spend quality time, with your family, you know, and with your friends. Never missing a a school sports day or a school play or whatever it is you need to be there for your kids. You'll be able to work around it.

You'll have the time to do that. You won't be tied into meeting somewhere else. And also, you don't underestimate this, you'll be part of a close knit group building life low long friendships within the academy. We've got some fantastic people in here and we've already got some bonding relationships that are growing and getting stronger and people just love the interaction with each other. Because we're great students, why not be part of that, you know, and really embrace it.

We will have meetings at some time where we'll get together which would be amazing. But that is, you know, that that's I mean this is I I get goosebumps thinking about, you know, what how this the academy is and how wonderful the, environment is. So where have you been up until now? Now you've probably been tossed around by one of the toughest industries. Don't believe anything that anybody says about trading being easy.

It is tough. It is really tough. It's one of the toughest industries out there, and there's a lot of reasons for that because the industry is filled with fake gurus, dodgy EAs and indicators, bad signal services, poor value brokers, and probably more. A lot of money spent. I went through the same journey as you and many many others have done, making mistake after mistake after mistake, became an indicator junkie, you know, thought the markets or brokers were against me.

I believe that trading is really a dark art that only a few will be allowed to prosper at or even just the institutions to prosper and the, you know, retail traders wouldn't be allowed to to win ever. That's what it felt like for a while. Really really tough industry to be involved in, but it's not diff it's not impossible and if you follow a set of rules, you can certainly do it and you should do it. Now I've spent 1,000 on EAs and custom indicators, so it's embarrassing to say so but I have and signal services and, you know, what have you searching for the magic bullet just absolutely crazy. You know, I've jumped from one strategy to another as I've mentioned before, everything.

I've done the whole lot. Now you've probably done something similar, maybe not to the extent that I did, but certainly done something similar. It's not really your fault. It's only natural to think that something else is better. You hear claims of people covering the cost of their holiday whilst they've been sat trading in the airport or some other ludicrous claim.

We're constantly being fed absolute nonsense. We know it is deep down, but we can't help following it just in case it is not b s, and it is actually something that we could benefit from. Now this is the large reason why I am sharing what I know with you and I'm don't hold anything back. Everything I know that I can put into this I will share with you. Now, whilst making all these crazy mistakes, it was quite a while before I realized that I'd actually found the holy grail.

You know, I'd actually found it but it took me a long while to understand that I'd actually found it. You know, I had a strategy that was 70%, well more than 70% successful. It had a positive risk reward, so better than 1 to 1 reward to risk. Now it doesn't get much better than that in trading. No matter what anybody says, you know, there's no way no way can you consistently get 90, 95% success rates trading unless you're taking extreme risks with your trades.

And a lot of Martingale strategies do this where you just keep on adding to your trade as it gets into worse position and adding and adding and adding, hoping eventually that it will come back in your direction, then it mostly does. And so for a long period of time, you get winning trade after winning trade after winning trade, and you think you're marvelous. And then once, it doesn't and you wipe out the whole account. That's why Martingale strategies are often banned, because they just are not sustainable over a period of time. You will wipe out your account.

It's just a matter of time and simple maths. Now once you've found that, and once I found that I actually had something that I've been searching for for ages, I didn't realize I had it but, you know, I I actually did have it, I stuck with it and that's when I spent those 18 months doing what I was doing and and I've never looked back. Now this is the reversal method. The other instructors, in in the academy have found their own holy grail. They don't jump around from one strategy to the to the next and we're all consistently profitable.

Now, doesn't that tell you something? It's no magic. They don't we don't all trade the same method. We all have different ones, quite wildly different ones, and yet we're all consistently profitable because we manage to master though, but master's the wrong word. You can never master something.

I wouldn't profess to be a master of the of of the strategy that I use, but it is I know it well enough, I know it inside and out and it it it allows me to make consistent money and sit exactly the same and the other instructors exactly the same. So what will the reversal method give you? Now by the end of the course you'll have all the tools necessary to make a living from trading the markets. Doesn't mean mean you will do but by the end of the course you will have all the tools in place. Now this is the difference.

We'll walk you through how to hone these skills so you can effortlessly apply them to the live markets. Now this is very very different from just knowing this area here, number 1, just knowing the strategies, knowing what you should be doing, and then actually applying it. That's the real skill. I will show you how to do that and then we'll show you how to scale your live account quickly until you're actually trading a 6 figure account and then maybe to a 7 figure. But certainly to a 6 figure, we will be with you until you're in that position.

Now there's nowhere else that I've come across that would do anything like this. We get a lot that will do number 1 and then it finishes, it ends, and the vast majority of people will fall off. They will fail. We take it to the next level, number 2, and then to the next level again, number 3. So this is the whole blueprint of how to get to the a in a position where you can make a living and a good living trading with a 6 figure account account.

So the quick win, this is the very first thing you will learn. So the first we have the m and the m tops and w bottoms. It's a quick win. It's called a quick win because generally speaking it doesn't take very long to learn and the trades go quickly to target. So it's a double quick win, you know, you actually learn the strategy really quickly, you're able to apply it quickly and the trades tend to hit profit target very quickly as well, which is, you know, that's beautiful.

Now it gets you on the right track, but there's much more to cover. This is, you know, this is obviously just give you a little head start at the start of the course, but then it gets really serious. The reversal method itself, the one that is very, very consistent and very, very profitable. So it's an 18 module course. I'll walk you through this.

The first, section of it is split into several modules. The component 1 is about preparation. You have to be prepared to trade. Without proper preparation, you know, you're preparing to fail. That's simple.

You know, so it's a it's a well new known sort of phrase, but it is actually very, very true. So it will show you what being a successful trader looks like, will establish how and when you'll be able to trade, you know, what are the times that you can actually trade to suit your life, depending on what your circumstances are, we'll create that together, and there's also what instruments you're gonna trade. Not everybody likes trading the same instruments, and it's pretty flexible with this because most instruments are profitable with it. Now then we move to core component 2, the confirmation. We find out what it is that we're looking for actually in the charts to to make money from.

And so these overarching patterns, what patterns are we gonna have to be trading? Let's find out and let's drill them in until you know them backwards. And we'll talk about economic news analysis, knowing when you should be coming out of the market because there might be an economic news event that's happening, and which ones you need to be bothered about, which ones you don't. Roadblocks, what's gonna be in the way of your, of price going to your target? Is there anything there?

Do we need to be bothered about it? Do we need to not take the trade because there's something blocking the path? All will be revealed. And previous price action, previous price action is so important. It's overlooked by 99% of traders in my opinion.

The the price action that goes into a pattern is almost as important as the pack the pattern itself, and you'll learn how to read that correctly to give you a huge advantage over normal, let's say, head and shoulders traders. And then the nuts and bolts of the actual process, which is to break, close, and retest of necklines. Then we move on to the actual execution section. So what are we looking forward to actually be able to execute the trade? Where to put the stop loss and the take profit levels exactly?

You know, what about actually the position size that we're gonna put into it, and how we actually physically do it? How do we enter and order into the market. Well, we go through it all. We don't leave anything to chance. Even if you're not too sure how to do it, we'll show you.

And then of course, letting the trade run, which is something I talked about before that made such a difference to me. Yeah. Let the trade run to profit target or stop loss. Now there are reasons and there are times when you do need to close the the trade manually and that will be explained as well. And then the advanced core component 4.

So when to manually close? When to move the neckline? Let the markets come to you. This is how to trade not sort of going seeking trade. Just let it all happen.

And then we're finding the process to really just get those extra percents out, you know, that, make the difference to your bottom line. Trade journal, what to document, what not to document, you know, what is important? Go through that and the practice. Think about practice. Practicing is so important and you should continue all the time.

You know, you shouldn't just stop, you know, when you've passed the course, it should continue. So this is everything I know converted into a course. So how to be successful? Knowing a strategy or several strategies inside and out is a great start, but it doesn't guarantee success. It's the actual application of this knowledge that ultimately gets you paid and that's what we do differently here.

You need to follow the rules every time, be disciplined, and be able to handle the emotions created by trading to be consistently profitable. The emotions of trading are different to anything else you've ever done in any other job, and you have to get your head around that, very different. So during this process, you'll learn from the course modules, you'll learn from live sessions that happen throughout the week, and you'll also learn from fellow students within the academy. Someone will have a huge amount of experience and be well down the line. They'll have gone through the same problems of you as you've you've had and you better get information from them, invaluable.

You'll have all of your questions answered, we guarantee that. If you ask a question, submit it through the form, we will answer it. And you'll complete projects, you'll be set projects, you'll complete them, and they'll be based on the lessons that you learn. So each module you'll have a pro a practice project at the end to be completed and submitted and then reviewed by us and feedback will be given to you. This will validate your work in progress.

It's the only way to get better, understanding where you're going wrong, what you need to work on, and also to get the pat on the back for doing a great job. Now as you advance, you'll continue to practice and hone your skills even when you've completed the course. I still do this today. Now you think about it. A professional sportsman, any type of sportsman do they stop practicing?

Do they just go from one event to the next? Think about Cristiano Ronaldo, footballer. Did he stop practicing when he became a successful footballer and earn 100 of 1,000 of pounds a week? No. He practiced longer and harder than ever before and became the best footballer in the world.

Now that's what you need to be thinking about. I still practice every week, this is how you become a successful trader. Now you will feel overwhelmed going through the course, it's only natural to do so. Now if you do or when you do, just concentrate only on the module that you're learning at that time. Take your time.

There's no rush. Only move on when you have gained a full understanding of that module. I can't emphasize that enough. You need to complete and understand the module before moving on because they are it's like a jigsaw. You won't complete the jigsaw if you don't actually have that piece in place.

So take it one element at a time, and allocate specific time for your studying. This is quite key as well because if you just leave it random and ad hoc, then you probably will be suffering and struggling to actually learn what you need to learn. Now be honest with yourself about what you can realistically accomplish in a day. You know, you can't think you're gonna complete 2 modules in a day. It's just not gonna happen.

You know, and so don't do that because you only end up beating yourself up for failing in your own eyes. So and you need to identify and remove distractions from your work environment. You know, make it easier to study, easier to learn. But also, you need to better periodically step away from your studying and take a break. It doesn't matter what you do.

Just go do something enjoyable. Let you recharge. Now you also have self doubt, we all do, we all doubt ourselves. It's a new venture for you, it's a big commitment in money and time. First thing to do is acknowledge it.

Acknowledge your self doubt. Everybody's gonna be in that position, just accept it. Try to identify the source. It might be something specific that you have that maybe you can isolate. It might not be able to do, but if you can, it sometimes can help.

The key to really getting through this is just set realistic goals. Don't be too aggressive, too, you know, don't expect too much of yourself. Just a nice realistic goal to make sure you're developing and moving through. If you are really struggling, seek support absolutely from your fellow, members of the academy, I mean they they would probably been through the same thing, get support from them or us and or us, you know, we can help as well. We've been through it, I've been through it and this is quite good as well.

Embrace failure. Sounds a bit strange, but, yeah, do so. Think it almost like you're progressing. Okay, I did that, didn't succeed. Let's try again, get better And again, okay, I'm still failing.

Imagine what happened. I had, I I was lucky enough to go and see a guy called James Dyson, many years ago and I had lunch with him and he he was the guy that developed the Dyson vacuum cleaner. Broke, you know, all the molds and and revolutionized the industry really. He he just worked on this tirelessly on this new way of sucking up dirt and dust out your carpets. He worked tirelessly for years and built literally, in his words, a 1,000 prototypes.

A 1,000 prototypes. So he failed 999 times. Did he give up? No. Of course, he didn't.

His 1,000 won worked. Nobody wanted to know. The big, you know, manufacturers, Hoover, Electrolux, and all that didn't want to know about his, so he built his own. And the rest is history and he'd become one of the wealthiest people in the country. Because he didn't give up.

He embraced failure. He moved on. Great, great, great role model, really is. So stay in the present as well. Don't look too far ahead.

Don't be daunted by, you know, what's coming up and what, you know, thinking you might struggle with that or whatever it is. Just stay in the present. You work your way through and before you know it, you'll actually be really good at what you're doing. And if in if you're in a little bit of a funk and you're just not really knowing where to go, sometimes the best thing to do is literally to take action. Do something.

The more you confront your fears and insecurities, the more confident you'll become over time. So just do something. You know what it's like. That first word on the page is the hardest to write in an essay or or whatever it is that you're doing or a presentation for work. It's the hardest one to to write.

As soon as you start writing, it starts to flow, so take action. You'll have psychological pressures. No doubt about it. It's only natural to feel pressured to complete the course and probably complete it as quickly as possible. Now that is the wrong attitude.

Do not do that. Stay positive and work at your own speed. Control that emotion. You know, other people may have moved on too early. You might feel like you're behind them, but they might have moved on too early.

They might not fully understood what they've learned so far. They also might have joined the academy well before you, so they're further down the line. So don't beat yourself up about being a little bit behind where they are. You know, they might have more time to put towards their learning than you do so they can go at a faster pace. They're used to studying or using technology more than you are, so they can progress quicker.

It doesn't matter. All of it's okay. The Trading Academy is full of different people with different strengths, lives, backgrounds, situations. The only thing that we're bothered about and the only progress that we're interested in is yours and that's the only one that you should be focused in on. Now you'll also have potentially time constraints, you know, life can be very busy.

We're all busy people making time to do anything in addition to your usual daily routine can seem at times daunting. But just focus on your overriding goal, you know, remember why you started this course in the first place. If it means rescheduling things around, you know, not going to the pub or watching Netflix or whatever it is then so be it. You know, the course won't do itself. It won't implant its knowledge into your brain automatically.

You have to get that knowledge in there. You have to do the work. You have to earn it. They have to make time and and sacrifices to achieve anything meaningful in life, we all know that, nothing really given to you for free, if it is then it's not worth very much. Now, trust me, making short term sacrifices will be more than worth it in the end.

Set a realistic study schedule and stick to it. Now next, you'll dive into the 1st module in this course, the quick win module. But before we do that, I've got a little project for you to complete. So this is where the quick win project is for the arrow there and under classroom section of the academy go into that quick win and learn it. That isn't the project that is that is the goal of what you're gonna do over the next few weeks.

But the projects I want you to do at this time because every single module including this introduction will have a project to complete is to well, I'll just go through this for one of your best friends will be, to help you grow as a trader is practice. I've already gone through that before and this is why we do projects. In the trading academy we're going to guide you through what, how, and when you should be practicing, so give you clear direction so you don't have to think about it too much you just do it. Now it's time for you to get going with your 1st practice project. Please complete this before you move on to your next module.

The practice project is very simple. Write the 5 main reasons why you are completing this course. Now think about it in terms of what it will mean to you, your family, and your friends once you've completed all the elements of the course and you have become a consistently profitable trader. What will that mean to you? And to your family, and to your friends.

Yep. If you feel like you can share this then please do. You don't have to share it all in its entirety but it still be really great to just put, right, my goal is bang. The reason why I'm taking this course is bang, you you know, and put it down there in the academy, in the hangout room, and share the reasons with your fellow students. They're probably very similar to each other, but there will be variances.

There will be differences, and it'd be great to see what they are. So now this is important as well when you've completed those five reasons, those five main reasons why you could do in this course, print it out in big bold type and stick it on your wall. Now whenever you find things hard and they're going a bit tough, read it to remind yourself of why you're doing this. It'll refocus you. I'd really look forward to seeing what you write, and I absolutely look forward to seeing you in the live sessions, and seeing how you progress in both the quick win and the reversal method.

Can't wait to work with you.
