
So welcome to my m top and w bottom reversal patterns course. In this first module, we're going to look at the core fundamentals of the strategy, and then I will build on these in modules 2 and 3. In itself, this will be pretty comprehensive, so, it'll be a good look at the strategy, so you might need to buckle up. I've been trading M's and W's for more than 10 years now. They form a fundamental element of my daily analysis and trading.

You know, there there are very few weeks, you know, if any, really, that I do not trade several of these patterns. They help me draw money from, or profits from the markets every month. Now how I discovered these was, I discovered the price action when I was actually trading another reversal pattern which was the head and shoulders pattern. You know, I started to notice price was reversing before a head and shoulders could form and it was reversing in a consistent way. You know, I began to see and predict the move before it happened.

And after a while, I got pretty good at doing this and so I decided to apply some rules and back test the price action that I was actually seeing to see if it did have any merits. The results were pretty astonishing. You know? Something so simple producing such consistent results surprised me. You know?

So I started trading the method on a demo account, so forward testing it. And then ultimately, I moved to the live account, and that's where I've been ever since, and traded them. And they they have worked in all sorts of market conditions. I've never had to switch them off, if you know what I mean. They work in pretty much all methods.

So over the years, I've refined and improved the method, increasing the probability of trade success, and the results of this optimization is what I'm gonna share with you now. So let's get to it. So here's what you're gonna learn or we're gonna go through at least, by the end of this module module, you'll be able to identify valid M and W reversal patterns. Yeah. To do this, we're gonna have to learn a few different things, which are first one is to how to assess the levels of the two sides of the M or W to see whether they're valid, whether the pattern is actually valid itself, from those levels, how and where to draw the neckline, where to actually enter the trade, how to identify and validate the pattern completion level, Don't worry.

If you don't know what that is, all will become clear. How to plot the stop loss and take profit levels, and how to identify which time frame is correct for the pattern. Now that's pretty key, something that's often overlooked so we'll go through all of that. Why should you learn it? Well, they are predictable.

These are high probability reversal patterns. You know, they're easy to identify or relatively easy. It might be tricky at the start, but they are relatively easy patterns because they are relatively simple patterns that are scientifically tested. And they're frequent. They happen a lot in the markets.

We don't have to wait too long for them to appear. We don't have to go chasing and looking for them. You know, on on average, probably in my watch list, I get maybe 40 a week. I'm just on the the hourly time, to frame itself, on its own. That excludes stocks, so, there's lots and lots of opportunities.

They can give rapid profits. I love this. You know? You can be in and out of a trade quickly. You free up margin.

You're not stuck in a trade for ages ages, so you, generally speaking, they go quickly to target. And they're applicable to all trading instruments, you know, stocks, indexes, commodities, forex, even, you know, the odd crypto and that. Although I don't trade crypto, and so I can't really validate that, but it is, you know, stocks, indexes, and commodities, and certainly forex are very, very successful with these. So or is very successful with those, instruments. Now when I first noticed these patterns in the charts, I didn't really believe they'll be consistent as they are.

However, they, you know, surprised me. And as I said before, they do form an integral part of my everyday trading. So if you don't learn it or don't learn a a valid strategy, this is what is going to happen. Now many people trade double tops and double bottoms, but most do not have a system for filtering the low probability setups and the high probability setups. You know, if you don't follow a proven system, then your results will be inconsistent at best.

And it's likely that, you know, you'll make emotional decisions, you know, cutting trade short maybe, randomly moving your stop loss or, entering a less than optimum level. You won't be consistent. You know, emotional decisions are are, well, the bugbear of all traders. Thus it's very difficult not to make emotional decisions, and this helps you do that. It's one of the better systems for that very, very little ambiguity.

You have a lot of rules attached to it. Yeah. Before I followed, you know, the rules of strategies and that I was the exact person. I've just described one that was extremely inconsistent and second guessing myself all the time, and, and I struggled. But now, you know, I follow the rules all the time, and so I've got predictable results.

And it's it's amazing how predictable it is. I know pretty much each month how much I'm likely to earn from just trading these method because I follow the same process every time. So it's, it's something essential to do that sort of thing. Now just imagine for a moment what it'll be like when you can, you know, almost effortlessly identify high probability reversal patterns in the charts. You know, you'll know, that if you follow the rules that you have a better than 70% chance of having a successful trade, and you'll be consistently profitable month after month after month.

And this is a big one. You'll actually join the elite echelon of successful traders. Not that many actually become successful consistently profitable, and there's no reason why you wouldn't be if you follow these rules. How cool would that be? So few keywords that we need to just go through.

You'll know some of these. Most of you will know, maybe even somebody will know all of them, but to I'll just go through to make sure that it is, you know, it is clear. So we have a wick. A wick, also known as a shadow or a tail, is the thin line found above and below the body of a candlestick. It represents the high and low prices during the specific time period of that candle.

And the body, of a candlestick represents the range between the opening and closing prices during the specific time period of of the candle. The body is usually colored and is much fatter than the wick. Neckline. This is the level marked by a horizontal line that is at the low of the bodies between the two sides of an m top or at the high of the bodies of the two sides of a w bottom. When price breaks through the neckline, it typically signals that price will continue in the direction of the break, and we can profit from that move.

Rogue wick. This is also known as a false wick or a a erroneous wick. It refers to an unusually long and isolated wick on a candlestick that deviates significantly from, the surrounding price action. This can usually be ignored and disregarded, and we'll come to that more, the road wick in, in the second module. I'm really going to detail about that.

So previous price action, this is something we need to know about. It's often abbreviated to PPA. Immediate previous price action refers to the most recent movement in price of the instrument before the m or w forms. So the price that runs up into an m before the m actually becomes clear is the immediate previous price action. And the same that run the the impulsive move down that goes into a w bottom is the immediate previous price action.

That's what we're very interested in, and it really is fundamental to this method. Pattern completion level. So it's often abbreviated to pcl. The pattern completion level is the price point at which the price action following the appearance of an m or w is considered complete. So it's the price action that happens after the m or w, occurs, and it's the level that's reached that deems the patent now to be complete.

And we mostly derive our take profit levels from this pattern completion level, so it is important. So I still want to do more, to have the room to complete. A pattern needs to have room to complete in order to have a high probability of success. We check the immediate previous price action to see if our intent identified pattern, can reach pattern completion level within the last run up in price if it's going into an m, or the last run down in price if it's going into a w. So I'll go through that in detail, show you examples, and you'll know how to do that.

And then my favorite word, wonky. This refers to the respective levels of the two sides of an m or w. In an m top, if one of the sides is significantly higher than another, then this is deemed to be a wonky m and may be deemed invalid. The same is true for a w bottom. One side being significantly higher than another, it could well be, deemed to be, invalid.

But we have ways of measuring that, which we will go into. So an impulsive move. Now what is an impulsive move? An impulsive move refers to a strong decisive price movement in one direction typically typically consisting of several larger than average candles all of the same color, so all green or red or whatever color you use on your charts. And candlestick.

Candlestick is is a type of price chart that you use to represent the price movements of an instrument over a specific time period. Sounds complicated, but it just measures the price movements within a certain period of time. Each candlestick displays the four pieces of information which are as follows. The open, the price at what at which the asset started trading during the period, the close, the price, at which the asset finished trading during the period, and then the high, which is the highest price reached during that period, and the low, which is the lowest price, unsurprisingly, reached within that period. So here we are.

That's a typical couple of candlesticks there. If we look at this here, we clearly see which part constitutes the bodies of the candles, which, constitute the wicks. And the high is, denoted at the top of the of the wick and the low of the time frame is at the bottom of the wick, so all pretty clear. So let's see it. So a bullish candlestick, so this is one that arrives on your chart and price has moved up because where price opened was quite low down.

Where it closed it was higher up, means price moved up over that period of time. But it actually moved up higher so it actually moved right the way up to here before falling back down to this level before the candle closed. All very valuable information. And there's obviously the low where it went down to before it, you know, got rallied still before the bulls got in charge again. So a bearish one where the price opened, where it closed, where the high is of that time period, and where the low is.

So one time, you see I mean, if you imagine how all this changes as as as time goes on, the price opens here. We have probably a push up for a start. We don't know, but it could well have pushed up at some time, and this looks like, oh, bullish candle gonna be happening. But then we have a reversal and price the bears get in control and then maybe, they get they run out of steam a little bit and bounce back and take a little bit of a breather while getting strength to push down lower or whatever happens. But, there's a lot of information held within one candle, and we can break that down by going down to smaller time frames to see what actually did happen in time within that one candle.

So it's all fractal. So what is an ‘M’ top? What what is it we're actually looking for? Well, we are looking for something that looks unsurprisingly like an m where price moves up strongly, forms a peak, pulls back, and then forms a second peak that's roughly the same sort of level as the first one before price sells off. Now that sell off is where we want to, profit.

The initial part, this part here, so from this this part going left, that just tells us a story about what is likely to happen in the market. The probability is if this happens and we get a break of the neckline, then the chances are we're gonna go lower. And so this is all setting up. This is all then time to make profit from it. And the neckline which we'll come to shortly is, pretty clearly identified, but I won't go into that at this stage.

A w bottom just, the opposite to an m. It's just an upside down m. Looks like a w, in itself, a letter w, and again, price comes down strongly into the w bottom, makes a low, retraces a little bit, bounces back up, and then pushes down to the same sort of level as it did do before before bouncing up higher and allowing us to profit. There's the next line. So have a quick look at this just on, and just assess here with this this blank sheet chart here with a few candles on there, and see if you can spot any places where there might be the sort of price action that we're looking for, which is w bottoms and m tops.

Just, I'll leave that with you for a second. Just pause the screen and then come back to it. So how'd you get on? These are the key ones. There was the odd other one that's there but if we see there's a move down followed by a push back up and a push lower to the same sort of level before price then took off again and allowed us to profit from it.

And then this one here, I moved down, I pushed back up, I pushed back down again, and then we move up. So we've got this letter w shape in it. And then here, a much more shallow pattern, but a really good strong impulsive move up, a a a retracement back down before pushing back up to the same sort of level. And there's a way of measuring to see if these are level, you know, that are close enough in in levels to be acceptable before pushing down again. And there are, you know, other ones that you could include in here as well, but, they're they're the key ones.

They don't always look as pretty as an obvious one that is, you know, just very, very clean pattern. You do get clean, very obvious patterns, from time to time, but normally there's a little bit of, you know, slightly stranger price action going in rather than just being really clean price action going in, really clear retracement, really clean move down before a clean move out. They're normally doing a little bit more, shenanigans in that with price because, you know, that's the way the price is. So you just need to be get quite good at spotting them and what is valid and what isn't, which again we'll go through examples to show that. So tools, you're gonna need something.

You're gonna need some tools to see this, and so you're gonna need charting software of some kind. You can use TradingView, which is the one that I use, MetaTrader 4, MetaTrader 5, Ninja Trade others, whatever it is. Doesn't really matter. These these are fairly simple patterns just long as it's a reasonable feed, and it isn't some random broker that's sending you some dodgy price action, then, you know, you you're all good to go. And I like TradingView.

It is my favorite. I've got used to using it over the years, and so it's second nature now. Even though I don't use a fraction of what its capabilities are, I use it enough to be able to be very competent in it. And I like it because once you get over the initial hurdle of, understanding what you know, just getting your head around it and that, it's it's got a user friendly interface fairly fairly straightforward. Extensive charting tools, I mean, you can't wish for any more, real time data.

They're very close to the exchange data. These are so very, very clear, consistent data feeds and customization options. You can make it look how you want to be. You can have as many charts on the screen as you want or pretty much depending on which package you buy, and, and set it up to look visually as you want it to be. So very, very, you know, a very competent charting package, and I think it's probably certainly arguably the best one out there.

And I'm comfortable using it. So if you want to get it, then there's a little bit of help here. You can go to the link below this video. We don't turn on the back of it. It's just purely a, a link to to get it.

You can go over all the available plans. This is, most of them are paid options. There is a free view 1 sorry. A free a free plan available, which is perfectly acceptable for this for this method. You don't need anything more than that.

And so you can get, you know, just just get up and running the free one. If you like it and you want to expand further, then you can, but there isn't any need to do so if you're just gonna do this. So what are the steps? We need to know how to physically go and do this. So let's have a look to see, what steps we take to trade this, method.

So we select the instrument and time frame that we want to, trade, and I'll give you some help on that front shortly. We need to identify the strong price move, and then a price pullback, then a retest of that level that would be in initial price move up or down, depending if it's an m or a w. Then you can draw in the neckline, which allows you to identify the stop loss level, and determine the pattern completion level from which, if we validate the pattern completion level, we can select our take profit level. And then we need to check the number of candles in the pattern to ensure that we know that we're on the right time frame because that is very important as well. So pretty, a number of steps to follow, but all fairly straightforward and can be done relatively quickly while you're in the markets.

There's no rush with this method either. It's very relaxed. It's very easy to, you don't have to have the finger on the button all the time. You can be relaxed into the process and which allows you then to make clear, obvious, and correct decisions all the time. So no rush with it at all.

Each step's very clear and obvious. So let's have a look at them in in detail. Select the time frame and instrument. The instrument is less important really than the time frame because most instruments work well. Obviously, you don't want if you go really exotic with your instrument, then you can probably suffer with the broker spreads.

But, as long as you keep within the normal sort of, major, instruments, then you should be okay with this. But the time frame is dependent on how much time you've got to dedicate to it to this. If you're maybe working a full time job, then, you know, trading the 1 hour time frame might not be possible for you because you could miss a lot of opportunities and get frustrated with it. You might be more suited to the 4 hour and daily time frames. I trade the 1 hour and, and I 1 hour, 4 hour and daily.

I don't go lower than 1 hour. So you true the choose the trading instrument you wish to analyze. The, you know, we've got a prevalent on all asset classes, so it's largely a matter of personal choice. But we'll go over some that I recommend just in case of what instrument you actually decide to trade. As I said, if you do select an exotic currency pair, then you might be struggling to make profits because the broker spread will be prohibitive on that front.

And then once you've decided your instrument, you've got to select the time frame. I just say it's, it's important to get that right. If you if you're there all the time in front of the charts, then you can trade whatever you want as long as it's 1 hour or above. If you are limited on your time, you might wanna go to the higher time frames, as in 4 hour and above. If you well, 15 minute time frames are perfectly acceptable, to well, not acceptable.

They are perfectly good to to see the patterns happen, and they play out really well. The thing that stops me trading the 15 minute patterns are the fact that broker spreads again get in the way. If you're looking for a 10 pit move and your broker spreads 2 pips, that's a big percentage of your move that the broker spreads taking up. And so you're having to have your profit target going 12 pips while his top loss is less than that. And so therefore, you, you know, you might be struggling to actually make money consistently with it.

And so it's much easier on the 1 hour and above, and you don't need to go lower than 1 hour because there are so many patterns that present themselves to you. You don't need to have any more unless you're some really, you know, trader on speed sort of thing needing to be making trades every hour. It's, anyway, no, I won't go down that route. So here's some recommended instruments if you just wanna get a few started, you can make your choice or whatever you want to do. These all have all have relatively low spreads and, have consistent price action that always, you know, show up a plentiful number of a number of m's and w's.

All of the top ones are obviously 4 x pairs, and the there's gold here. You could swap that out for US oil if you, if you prefer both work very, very well with this method. There's the DAX, the German stock market, stock index. You can certainly use that or if you wanted to use the S and P 500, that's fine. Again, you know, it's not not crucial, but these are ones that are consistently profitable with these, this method and have low spreads, which is something that I know not everybody.

I've I've negotiated quite good deals with the brokers I'm I'm I use, and so the spreads are very low in comparison to a lot of people. So it's important if you do have relatively basic packages where your spreads are fairly high, that you trade in instruments that actually keep those spreads or the or or have relatively low spreads to other ones. So you just just need to be aware of these things. And here is my watch list. Sorry.

It's a little bit messy on here. Maybe not that clear, but, this the left 2 here, this this column and this column are my main watch list. They are consist of all the all the forex pairs that I trade and the commodities and the indexes. So that's all encompassed on those 2 there. And then I do trade stocks which are over here, which are Nasdaq stocks.

I prefer Nasdaq stocks to any other. But this method, I haven't comprehensively done an assessment on which ones work well and which ones don't. I know that Nasdaq works very nicely, and so I'm happy enough to keep doing that. And there are so many stocks to choose from. It's, it it's it's amazing.

So, those are the ones I use. They're the 2 lots mainly focus on this here and this side, but I do venture into the stocks as well. They're a little bit harder to see and a little bit more, well, a little little trickier to trade because of obviously they're not open for as long, and so there are a lot of downtime with stocks where they're off market, so they do not, you don't see any price happening with them, and you can't do anything about it. You know, you get price to be moving away from you and go well through your stop loss, but then when it opens the next day, you know, you're gonna be hit for a bigger stop loss than what you expect, you know, because you can't do a lot about it. So you have to be careful with trading stocks, or more careful at least, and and just, get used.

But, you know, I know some of you will be, you know, that that that are doing this course will be, more, you know, predominantly stock traders. So you can do it. There's nothing to stop you doing that. You just have to be aware of of some of the little nuances that happen, and I'll go into detail about that later in the course. So right.

Second thing we do, we need to identify a strong impulsive price movement. The price action leading into the pattern is extremely important, something that a lot of students fail to follow properly. The probability of having a successful trade result is increased significantly if certain price action is exhibited in the immediate previous price action. So how do you do it? Well, you identify a strong impulsive move up or down into a way in in price.

The impulsive move should really consist of more than 1 larger than average candle and preferably be all of 1 color. So bullish or bearish candles, all bullish or all bearish. So here's an example. A couple of them. There's an impulsive move up on the left.

All green candles moving upwards. Beautiful. And then there's an impulsive move down on the right. So we'd be looking for the next stage of a potential m top happening on this move, and on this one we'd be looking for a potential next move, that would happen with for to start to form a w bottom. But the first thing you'd do is identify this type of a price action.

Very key. Then right now, what's the next thing we do? We need to determine whether there's been a pullback in price. This pullback potentially forms the left side of the m or w. Therefore, it's integral, to to the pattern and without it, an m top or a w bottom, you know, wouldn't be in evidence.

So, it's it's very, very important. Obviously, this happens, all very key. So you go to your chart. As usual, you observe a significant pullback in price from the latest impulsive move up or down. Measure this pullback to ensure that the highest, lowest, whatever, highest in the form and if it's if you're looking for a w bottom or the lowest if you've got looking for an m, the lowest body does not exceed 50% of that, impulsive move.

In reality, you're probably looking at 40% of that move. Really, you want it to you don't want to pull back to be more than 40% of the impulsive move. So that's the last rundown in price. Okay. If it does exceed that then you need, you know, to potent the the potential pattern is invalidated.

Simple as that really. You need to just move on. So here we go there's a couple of pullbacks on some price actions so pretty small pullback on the left here very clearly a lot less than 50% or a lot less than 40% of the move of this move down so absolutely fine and valid this move here big move up and I pull back a little bit deeper this time but that's the area we're looking at the the lowest body at this time is that 40% or less of the move from here to here? Well, yes, it is. It's closer than this one, but it isn't it isn't more than 40% of the move down, so therefore we're okay at the minute.

If we get another big candle here that comes lower, then it then the situation changes. But at the minute, it is absolutely fine. So we're okay. So let's have a look to the next thing we're looking for. We need a retest, so this is step 4.

You want to retest the pullback level. So where was the top of the impulsive move up, or where was the top the bottom of the impulsive move down? Sorry. The next move potentially forms the first leg of the right side of the m or w. Again it's integral to the pattern and without it an m or w will not form.

So go to the chart again, have a look at the pattern, observe a move back to a similar level price level as the low or high of the impulsive move, and then if necessary use the Fibonacci retracement tool to check that the levels the latest price move complies with the rules for retest, to form a valid m or w, bottom, m m top or w bottom. The condition if the conditions aren't met, don't worry. I'll go into and show you how to use the Fibonacci retracement tool, show you what it is, show you how to use it, and how to validate, the tops or bottoms, the two sides of the, m's and w's, and a little bit later when we go into the charts and have a good look at these things. Now if the conditions aren't met again, then the pattern is invalidated or the setup is in bat invalidated. You move on.

So this is how it looks in the charts to some extent. We move down in price, push back up, and then push down again to a similar level to where the last rundown in price ended. And that's where it that's where price is on this, so that's absolutely fine. Along this one here, we had a push up or back down, and then we've had to push back up to the similar sort of level as we've had before, you know, at this top of where that run up in price was. So the top of the left side of the m should be met by the top of the right side of the m or close to it.

Step 5, we draw in the neckline. So so this is where the real action happens. You need to draw the old neckline in there and, you know, the key level, is is the neckline. We take an awful lot from this, and that you know, if it's breached or broken, then it confirms the pattern and validates the trade entry. So it is a key area.

So go to the chart again, and in an m, you find the bottom of the lowest body of any candle between the high of the left side of the m and the high of the right side of the m. So any candles in between the two highs, the the two sides of the m, you pick the lowest body of those and that is the neckline. In a w, then we find the top of the highest body of the of any candle that's between the low of the left side of the w and the low of the right side of the w. So grab a quick look at it here. You can see this is an m top here.

We look for the for the pullback down, push back up, and then when price well, when this has happened here, we can draw in the neckline, and we could put the neckline in at the low of any bodies that are in between this left side and the right side. And on the w, obviously, it's the high of any bodies between the left side, which is here, and the right side, which is here. So the highest body of those, you draw a horizontal line, that's your neckline. So you mark it, you put it in there, you draw it in so you have your neckline. This is it in the, chart.

So again, so we've had got the two sides of the potential w formed yet, but we've looked like we've got a good chance we can put the neckline in as soon as this level here reaches this level, you know, a similar level to the left side of the w. And so then we draw in the neckline exactly on the top of the bodies of those candles there. That's your neckline. And in this one here, obviously we've had this move up, pull back down, push back up again. The lowest bodies in between the left side and the right side of the potential m is where the neckline is, and that is it.

Just at that point. Okay. So how do we identify the stop loss? Important. You need a self safety belt.

You need something to protect yourself. Very, very important. It's so important. It's a vital tool for managing risk and, maintaining a disciplined approach to training trading. It also provides information which leads to determining the pattern completion level and position another take profit, so it is an important thing.

So you go to your m or w, that's in the process of potentially forming, you draw a horizontal line at the highest price point of an m, so the highest price point of the m or the lowest price point of the w. So single rogue wicks, single wicks on their own, a maximum of one of those on either side of the m or w can be ignored and disregarded. So if you've got one crazy long wick that's just out of kilter with everything else that's going on in the pattern, you can ignore it as though it's not there. Now once you've determined where that highest or lowest point in of the pattern, that's your base stop loss, but that isn't the end of it because you need to then check what your broker spread is for that instrument, and you need to add one pip to that figure. So if your broker spread for whatever instrument it is you're trading is 2.1, then you add 1 pip to that to make 3.1.

And then you take that figure or this figure of 3.1 and go back to your chart and add this to your base stop loss and then redraw your horizontal line. This is your true stop loss. So how does this look? So here on the left hand side, we can see that we've got the stop loss drawn in here. This is the low of the pattern.

This is this is that's won't be classed as a rogue wick. That's on because it's similar to this one here, so we're okay. We still keep that one in place. The stop loss is initially, you put it absolutely on the very bottom of that wick, and then you would add in or take away in this case 3.1 pips if that's the case, and drop your stop loss down that amount of pips and redraw the line, the horizontal line. That's quite close there, so this could be a 4 hour chart or a daily chart or something, and 3 and 3 pips is the amount of distance there.

This one here a little bit more obvious. Stop loss is this is the top of the pattern here. This one, again, no rogue wicks in this. It's the top. That's the highest price point of the pattern.

That's what we look for. And so that should that's your base stop losses drawn at the top of that that wick exactly on the top, and then you add 3.1 to it. If that's if you broke a spread to 2.1, you add 3.1 in total and redraw your stop loss. That's it. And then that's where you are.

What it allows for there is if price comes back up and retest the same level as this here, you will not be stopped out, or it's unlikely that you'd be stopped out because obviously spreads can widen and contract throughout the day, but it gives you that little bit of protection so that if price comes back up to this level, which it can do, it will not stop you out if it reverses off that level. That's the idea, just gives you a little bit of room above that. So we're getting there. Step 7, determine the pattern completion level. The the pattern completion level is the level where we expect price to reach as a minimum after the net line has been broken.

Therefore, you know, it's a fundamental element in the place of us take profit level because we know that price is likely to go that far, and so that's where we expect to put our take profit or further away than that. So again, how do we do it? We vertically measure from the net line to the stop loss. So you take a vertical line up and you measure that distance between the stop loss and the net line. This is the figure that we'll we'll use we will use to determine the pattern completion level.

So n and m top, use the above figure, so whatever figure that is, to measure vertically down from the neckline and draw a horizontal line this is the pattern completion level in a w bottom use the figure whatever it is between the neckline and the stop loss to measure vertically up from the neckline and draw a horizontal line, again this is the pattern completion level. So here we go, this is it. So here, we measure from the neckline which is here, down to the stop loss. Whatever that distance is, there then we measure whatever that is vertically up the same distance. So if that's 25 pips, from there we measure 25 pips up that way.

And then draw a horizontal line. That's the pattern completion level. That is where we expect price to go to as a minimum after breaking the neckline. And the same here, very clear measure up to the stop loss whatever that distance is we flip it 180 degrees and just measure down that same distance and draw a horizontal line. Pretty straightforward, pretty good.

But we're not finished with the pattern completion level yet. We do have to do one other thing, which is something that a lot of students have difficulty with and found find this, something that I probably would say this is the thing that is forgotten more often than not, so probably pay close attention to this bit and make sure it really does go in. We need to validate that pattern completion level. Is it a clear level? Is it is it likely that price can go to that level?

You know, so validation of it is really important. So ensuring that pattern completion level is at a level where price has been before in the immediate previous price action increases the probability of of having a successful trade significantly. So how do we do it? So we identify the price level of the PCL, we've just done that, we know where it is. You go horizontally left, so you draw a horizontal line, until you run into a body of a candle at the same level.

So this is a horizontal line going left, and as soon as you hit a, body of that candle, you have that that is your first that that that is, where we're we're validating the price level at. You have to determine if this candle formed part of the impulsive move up or down into the pattern. This is the impulsive move that we identified in step 2. Is does that horizontal line that comes off the pattern completion level run into the bodies of that impulsive move? If the answer is yes, then great.

The the pattern completion level is validated. If it doesn't, then it is invalidated and you move on to the next setup. So here it is in action again. Same pattern. So there's our pattern completion level.

Simply enough, you go left with a horizontal line until you hit a body of a candle here. Or you hope to hit a body of a candle. Let's put it that way. So you go left, and you run into the price action, which is within this last impulsive move down into the pattern. So therefore, that is validated.

Your pattern completion level has it it it is within the last run down in price, so therefore it's validated. And the same with this one, price move up. This is the last impulsive move up. At in completion level go left yes we do run into that impulsive move up and it is into the body of one of the candles in that impulsive move up so we're all good we are we have validated that area so we're still good to go with this setup Now the reason why we do this and the reason why it does increase probability is something like this. If you see this, it's not really an m top.

Well, I suppose it is, but it's not a valid one. But price moves up quite strongly, pulls back, pushes back up again. And then on the break of the neckline, which is here actually, just on that there, is there room for it to go to target? Well, there there isn't because the pattern completion level would be way, way, way even below the screen here, down way way below because neckline to stop loss, flip it upside down, way down below so it's not within the last run up in price, and this is why it happens quite why we need it to to be within that last run up because price often comes back down like it does here and and again into this bottom, into the pivot low and bounces off it. You know, if this pivot low was lower, the chances are this price action here would come lower.

And so that's why we do it because the probabilities are increased if, you know, we are I validate the pattern completion level correctly. Another example here, probably a clearer one, is very clean w bottom here, all good to go, you think? Yeah. Measure that's the neckline. Measure it down to the stop loss.

Flip it upside down. That is the pattern completion level there, so we've got horizontally left. We don't run into anything of the previous price action, which was this run down here. So we're above that, and it invalidates the patent. So that's not a setup we could trade.

And so we're all doing that while we're down here. We're all assessing that at this this time here, before we've triggered into a trade. So we know all of this before it's done. You know? You've got plenty of time to do it.

No rush at all. And again, the reason why is because, look, as soon as price comes up to close to being at the top of this last run down in price, we see it stall and probably reverse. So we don't want that. You know, we want it to go to to target profit, and we want our target profit to be a sensible distance away with the correct risk to reward. So we need to do it.

Anyway, step 9. We're nearly there. 10 steps. Select the take profit level. This is where we get paid like this one.

So how do we do this? You know, take profit ensures that we lock in our gains. We get paid. You know, it automatically closes a position at a predetermined profit level, and so it's important to get that profit level right, to give it a good chance to get to profit without cutting it short. But we don't wanna be too ambitious with it because market can easily reverse before it reaches out.

So getting that right, optimizing that level is important, and it promotes discipline, you know, by helping manage risk and maintain a balanced approach between gains and losses. We're not being too ambitious. We're not being too cautious. We're getting it just right so we can maximize these patterns to make the most money we can from them, which is the ultimate goal. And so we look really I'd look for a one to one risk reward the majority of time.

I'm happy with that. Price goes to that very regularly, very reliably, and and we're in and out of a trade fairly quickly. There's nothing wrong with a one to 1. If you do any back test you do on any type of, strategies or whatever, a one to 1 risk reward will actually not be far off, as good as, but see, any other way of of trading it. It's bizarre.

You think, oh, now I need to have a 2, 3, 4, 5 to 1 reward to risk. Well, you don't because the one to ones get hit a lot more often. It only takes one that doesn't get hit when you're going for a 2 to 1 or 3 to 1 and get hit your stop loss to really upset your figures on that, whereas it might have hit the 1 to 1. And so one to ones are really key to, in this particularly because we, we expect the price to come out of the pattern quite quickly, hit our hit our take profit quickly, reload. That's it.

And we can trade a lot of these. We don't get bogged down with it, just blocking up our, you know, trade, you know, our open trades, you know, just blocking up our margin and meaning we're preventing us make other making other trades. So one to one is pretty good. Now a way we do that is obviously identify the pattern completion level. That's at a one to one level.

You know, if you think about it, the stop loss is the same distance away from entry as the pattern completion, so that's your one to one level. So that's where we put our take profit usually. There are ways of actually extending out take profits, but that comes in the next module, not this one. Okay? And we don't do it very often, but just sometimes.

And you set your take profit level at that pattern completion level, but you have to take into account the broker's spread again. So here we go. So this is our pattern completion level here. So we know that that's validated. We put our take profit level a few pips above depending on what the broker spread is for that particular instrument.

And the same with this here, pattern completion level here. We've actually put our take profit a little bit below that just to take account of the broker spreads. Otherwise, we'd have less than 1 to 1 risk to reward, and that's not a very good recipe long term. Okay. So hopefully that makes sense.

Certainly go over that again if it if it didn't, and, we'll move on. We're on to the last step of this of the core fundamentals. You've gotta validate the size of the pattern. And fairly straightforward, think do we need to assess if we are trading the pattern on the correct time frame. This, promotes really consistent results, and we do it by measuring the size, the number of candles within the m or w.

So we need to identify the price level of the neckline, so just the neckline, that's fine. And then go horizontally left until you hit the body of a candle. This is candle number 1. Now you count the candles moving forward from candle number 1, and we stop counting when the neckline is broken. So whenever a candle breaks the neckline, it doesn't have to close below the neckline, it just needs to break the neckline, then we, that that's the last candle in the pattern.

If this number is between 7, which is the minimum, and 30, which is the maximum, then the pattern is on the correct time frame. If the break of the neckline occurs before 7th candle, so 6 candles or less, then we go down a time frame. But bear in mind that I don't trade anything lower than a 1 hour. If it's on the 1 hour chart, then you can't go lower. So you just have to wait for the next setup.

If there are more than 30 candles, then you move up to the next time frame. In either case, if you do this, you need to reassess the pattern starting at number 2 again, because the neckline will be in a different place almost certainly. And that is actually why in a way we do it because that neckline is really key to to whether the pattern's gonna be profitable or not, and the number of times it will be not profitable if you trade it on the wrong time frame to when you actually do trade it on the correct one. I've often gone up from a 1 hour time frame to a 4 hour. The 1 hour neckline will be higher than the 4 hour one, and the 4 hour one is is is met perfectly and take profit is reached, whereas the 1 hour one wouldn't be.

So very important to get it right. Very, very important. So this is it. This is it in practice. So here's your neckline here.

You go left until you hit a body of a candle. That's candle number 1. That's it. Then you count forward. So 234 all the way across to the where we have a break of the neckline, and that candle broke the neckline.

And so as soon as it does break the light line neckline, that's the end of the pattern, as in end of this the the count in the size of the pattern, for for these purposes, and that's 13. Lucky number. Thirteen candles in that pattern, that's fine, and so we're on the right time frame. And this one here, which I know is not a valid pattern, for reasons we've said in the past, it's a bigger one, more candles in it, and again we go left from the neckline, candle number 1 because that's where the intersects with the body of a candle. We're not talking about going into a wick.

If it if the neckline was here, we'd go through there until we reach the body of a candle, which would be that one. But it's not. It runs into that body of there. That's candle number 1 and all the way across to be 25 where we break the neckline. So we're still valid even though it's a much bigger pattern.

That would still be a valid number of that's still on the right time frame. It's an invalid pattern because there's no room for pattern completion level, but it's on the right time frame. So you're you're observing it correctly, and the neckline is in the right place. And so therefore, then you can determine whether it's valid in other ways, and it isn't. So here's, an example of what looks like a w bottom.

So you can see a lovely w pattern here like that. If you go left from the neckline, runs into this candle here and you count forward until it breaks the neckline which is here. 76 candles too many. 3rd is the maximum, so you go up a time frame, and whatever it is, so if this is 1 hour you go up to the 4 hour, and this would be what it looks like on the time frame above. And this time is valid because there are 19 candles from here across to here within the pattern.

And so that is valid, and that means it's on the correct time frame. This one. And it looks better doesn't it? Lovely impulsive move on the way down. Pull back, down it goes, breaking the neckline, off to the races.

And here's an example of observing something that's on too few candles. So price comes down in price, we expect you know, say it's about a really impulsive move from appear all the way down, bounce back up, push back down again to the for the right side of the w here, neckline is here, we go left across this is candle number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. That's less than 7, that's too few. So in this circumstance when you're observing it at this time you would have to go down the time frame as long as it's no lower than 1 hour and we go across and this is what it would look like here. So impulse should move down in theory, probably from above here, down it comes into the pattern, bounces back up, pushes down again, breaking the neckline here, off it goes.

So that would be the correct time frame because there's 22 candles in it there. Well, there's only 5 in this one. Okay. So trade where do we enter? Where do we get in?

We will actually go into real detail on this in the next module and talk about how you actually set orders and alerts and the like to ensure that you you don't miss entries and how you physically do that. But to give you an overview of it, so you know where we're coming from, it is, just on the break of the neckline that we enter the trade, and it only has to be broken by half a pip. That's sufficient. That is absolutely fine. We don't need a retest.

It's not like head and shoulders patterns that, the other pattern that I trade is a reversal. We need to break the neckline, a retest, and then move on. We don't need that. This is an entirely free flowing pattern that when it breaks the neckline, it often just goes bang and disappears. We don't need the retest.

So if it's on the w, which is here, so on the there's the neckline, which is the dotted blue line. The entry would be half a pip above that, which is the green line that's there. And an m dotted blue line, half a pip below is entry. So when price comes down to that level, you'd be in the trade to sell it. Put some candles on it here, move down, push back up, move down again, neckline here, entry is just half a pip above that neckline.

And so you'd be in the trade at that level there. Now in this case it did retest it, but it doesn't matter very often it just goes. And again just showing it with an m top just half a pip below the neckline in the trade. Other steps, make sure you go over them and really really, you know, get to know them inside out. So there's no doubt you can have a checklist and just go and while those those steps, it seems like, oh, there's 10 steps.

That's a lot quick. It's ever so quick once you get used to doing it really straightforward. No difficulty at all in that once you get practice with it, but you'd like anything, it takes a little bit of time just to get proficient with that. So just make sure you feel comfortable with everything. So let's just have a go into the live charts, have a little look to see what's happening.

Lovely. So apologies. We'll start again with that one. Right. So we're into the charts.

This is a pound Aussie dollar, and we've got this impulsive that's the first thing we look for. So that's it. So we've got a heads up a little bit on this. We need in fact, I'll take it back a fraction to go through the whole process of this. So that's the impulsive move.

That's the first heads up to think, oh, we might be looking for something here. Let it happen though. Don't don't force anything. Just let it happen. And then as price moves forward, you get a bit of a pullback.

Okay. So now we're very interested in keeping an eye on this, and I'd probably put a flag on my watch list up here to say, right, this is something I need to keep an eye on or keep it on a separate screen or whatever. It would be depending on what stage it's at. And so now the next thing we need to have is obviously a move back down to the same sort of level as this. Do we get that?

And we do. Yes. This is a gap in the market that I was talking about when I didn't tap the screen, but this this gap here is from Friday evening till Sunday. This is the open here. Often happens.

There's a gap. Often happens with stocks as well, which, because the pry it could be because the markets are closed for a lot of the time. This is a weekend, so price opens at a different level to where it closed. Fair enough. But just draw a line in between the 2, and then that marries the 2 up, and you can just, then then it less confusing for you.

So we have three elements. Price moved down, that is valid beautiful move down. A pullback, which is valid because it's well within, you know, 40% of that move down. So great. Then we've had a push back down to the same sort of level.

So now we can actually start thinking about enter the trade. And, on the break of the neckline, are we happy to do so? And there's some other things we do in the next modules to assess whether we are happy to do that. But for the purposes of this this stage here, then we are happy to be in this situation so that when the break of the neckline happens, we will be looking for profit target. And where we assess that profit target is by we don't have to worry about these 2 wicks here.

They're they're low rogue wicks, 1 on either side you can disregard. They're just wicks that are not really part of the pattern, and so we can just use it off the bottom of this wick here, and take the broker spread below just guessing what that would be, so it's 34.4 is the figure, 34.4 is there so that's our pattern completion level. So if that's pattern completion level there, then you add your broker spread to that level which takes it slightly above. That's our take profit level there. And all done.

Then you can set, an order or wait for the price to break the neckline, whichever it is, but you'll then go into this and as price moves on, you'd be triggered into the trade now on the break of that neckline straight away. You don't wait for a retest. It is done. And within a few candles, it goes to target. And that's the process pretty much.

You do need to check for the things, but that is for the next module. Okay. And I will show you how to use the Fibonacci tool now, which is, to test whether the left side of the pattern is similar level to the right side. You can clearly see that these are very even levels, so there's no worries about that. You don't need to have a a test or work out what it is, but with we'll look at this one here.

This is the DAX, the German Stock Exchange. Big impulsive move down. Beautiful move. A pullback. Okay.

And then a push down again. Is that valid? We need to know whether this is valid or not. The tool we use for the job is this tool here which is a Fibonacci retracement tool. Okay.

So that Fibonacci retracement tool is a tool which I will just you can customize it, click on it, put settings, and you you only really need for for doing this, you need the 0 and the 1. You don't need anything else highlighted apart from an extension, which is this one here. Now that should that that starts at 1 point it it defaults when, this is set up to 1.272. That's what it is when you click on, on that. If you clicked on this one, it's 2.272, but this one is 1.272.

I round that up to 1.3. It works better on 1.3. So 1.3 is the figure we use, and you click okay. Now what how we use this is to assess with when we test whether this side, although it's higher than the left side, is it too high? Is it too big a differential between this side and that side to make it invalid?

Well the way we test it is by putting the Fibonacci tool on this lowest part, including the wick of the highest side. Okay. So we put the tool on and click lowest part of the of the highest side for a w, and then we pull up until we reach the neckline which is here. That's the neckline. Okay.

And so and we click again. So that's we're starting at this point, pulling up until the neckline here, and we're clicking. This green line here is our extension. If that green line is on or below the bottom of the bodies of the lower side of the w, then it's valid. And that's just about valid.

It's on the absolute level, isn't it, of that. So it's just about valid. It didn't look like it probably would be, but it just about is. So that is a valid differential between the right side of that, w and the left side, and away it went up to target. So that was good.

There's another example of that here. So another go. So we'll use the tool again. So we've got a couple got price move moving up. Make it a bit bigger.

Price moves up. Gotta pull back. Gotta push back up again. Are these levels okay? Have what you know is this okay to trade?

Let's see. So get Fibonacci tool in this case it's an m so we go from the lowest so the highest point of the lowest side which is this on an m that point drag it down to the neckline which is here and go across. And then we look to see whether the bodies of the the higher side are below the green line, and they're not. That's invalid. Even though it went to target, doesn't matter, it's invalid.

Find the probabilities, that's the key. Make sure we don't trade wonky patterns, that one's a wonky pattern. No good. Okay. And then there's this one here, impulsive move down, pull back, push down again, and off we go.

So we'll test that one here. So again, the the lowest side or the higher side for, of the w. Pull up to the neckline. Go across. And it's that green line below the bodies of the yes.

It is. So that's valid. So that one's okay to use. There's only that one that wouldn't be valid in this case. And a quick last couple to have a look at.

Beautiful move up on euro US dollar. Beautiful move into a pattern pulled back and push it back up to the virtually the same level. No need to measure it. Very clearly, virtually the same level. Not a problem.

Break the neckline, which would be here. All good. All good sell off down there. And if you want to place stop loss would be I mean, that is not really as a rogue wick particularly, it's just a fairly small wick, so you can place it above that point there, so the 23.8 that will be a stop loss just above that wick and then 23.8 is pattern completion level so there draw a line on it Go left. Is that part of the last impulsive move up?

Yes, it is. So it's valid. And price comes down. And this is what happens time and time and time again. Price comes down to the pattern completion level and then reverses off it.

I know it could build strength up again to to go through, but it seems to know price seems to know where pattern completion level is. That's why it's important to get it right. Important to measure it correctly, and, and make sure that you, are observing the same routine every time so you're consistent with it. So that one's a good one. I'll show you a rogue wick, which is on GBP pound vs CAD.

Yeah. This one here is a rogue wick, just a big wick on its own, not part of the pattern. It's just a bit freaky. Goes up, comes down. We don't need to use that one, so we can base our stop loss for this m top on this candle here.

So we place our stop loss at that sort of level above there, depending on what the broker spread is. And take our 22.5. Oh, that's about where it is there. So clearly within the last roll up in price, that's our take profit just slightly below that level, and it hits it within 2 candles. Exactly what we want to happen.

You see, if you're going for a bigger, you know, a longer stop loss you know, sorry. A longer profit target, a bigger profit target rather than 1 to 1. I mean, it might have hit it eventually. It didn't in this case, but often it will hit it, but it takes an awful long time to get there. And you just, you know, you're just blocking up your account for so long.

So one to ones are great. They're really good. So I hope that that's clear. So the bigger picture, just get a little bit of a holistic understanding of where we are. Just take a step back for a moment.

You know, you need to be dedicating yourself to learning, understanding, you know, and applying the information this module, gives you. You know, give you a great foundation, in terms and w's, and we'll build on that in the next couple of modules, but really go over this and get this in ingrained into yourself. But there's a lot more to learn yet. There's a lot more to go through because we've got ways of really increasing the probability of the success of each one of those m's and w. You need to better identify them, but, you need to then understand how you can increase the probability of them even further, which is great.

So once you get skilled, you know, the patterns would jump out at you. You know, on average, there's 30 to 50 patterns that appear on my watch list every every week. You know, that's just on the 1 hour time frame. So, you know, obviously, I can't trade all of those because I'm asleep some of the time, but but there's enough to be selective. And so then we can utilize the new things we're going to learn in the next module and that to to be more selective and to get that higher win rate that we all love to have.

And it won't happen immediately. You can't just read this. You can't just understand, you know, and go through a course once and then become an expert. You need to be disciplined. You know, you need, to take your time with it.

You need to practice. You need experience. There's a lot to learn. You know, it's one layer at a time, but don't rush the process because once you've got it, you've effectively got a process that can draw, profits out of the market each month, and that's that's worth taking your time with. So you're gonna have some challenges, of course you are.

You know, you're gonna be it's gonna be difficult, you know, initially to to recognize the setup, of course it will. And it'll be hard to trust your analysis because you'll be second guessing yourself again. You might misread the previous price action or not understand quite what to do with it. You need to go back to the, the module again to go through it again. Whether the pattern wonky or not, you might have difficulty with the Fibonacci tool.

Whatever it is, you know, you can you will have some barriers. And sometimes you won't be prepared to wait for the market to show the pattern. You'll go looking for them and try to shoehorn them into price action that isn't really right. And you'd be tempted to bend your rules. Don't do it.

But you'd be tempted to do that. These are barriers that can happen. Don't worry. All normal. Every single person will go through this experience.

Don't beat yourself up about it. You can't expect to be a master, you know, immediately. It takes a while, You know? You just it just takes time. But with proper dedication and practice techniques, you will quickly improve and soon you'll effortlessly see the patterns and be able to trade them successfully.

So basic stages of progress, you know, what stage you're at. Some will be further on than others. But as a beginner, you'll struggle to identify the patterns. You know, you'll forget the importance of previous price action. You know, you won't be able to judge if a pattern is wonky or not.

You know, often forget to measure the size of the pattern, all sorts of different things. You know, you struggle to comply with the rules and the story. But as you get better, you become an intermediate sort of level. You'll have a much better understanding of what constitutes a valid valid pattern and be able to identify most of them as being valid. Sometimes you'll forget, you know, to follow the rules or you'll misread previous price action, of course you will.

It's a process. But you'll eventually get to be this level, which is where you'd be an advanced trader. And we do have advanced traders within the academy as as we speak now, That effortlessly just go into the market and be able to, you know, have full understanding of all the rules and new nuances of the of the patterns, you know. And you better see the patterns just without even you know, they'll be jumping out at you. And you see them in real time, which is the key bit, so you're able to take advantage of them.

And you'll be able to differentiate between the good setups and the less probable ones. It just becomes, you know, so good. So let's summarize everything. So key points to remember: we need to identify a strong impulsive price move, we need to see and judge a valid pullback from the impulsive move, This forms the left side of the pattern, and recognize then a valid retest of that level. Use the fib tool to make sure the sides aren't wonky, if necessary.

Draw in the neckline. Plot your stop loss. Derive the pattern completion level, and take profit and stop loss levels, validate the pattern completion level. Gotta check to see if the pattern has room to complete, we know how to do that now, and ensure the pattern is on the right time frame. Remember the 7 to 30 candle rule.

So for developing proper competency, you've got to study this model proper module properly. No good just skimming it. It won't help you one bit. But then the next stage is to put all this into practice. Now this is where we are now, and in a moment, I'll go walk you through what the practice project is because there is a new project a to go through, which is, a good you know, I I think it's a a very, you'll get you'll get a lot from doing the project.

Let's put it that way. You identifying patterns on blank charts, really, really helpful to do. Trains the eye. Now once you've, completed the project, you'll find a post pinned at the bottom of this module. Go, go ahead and post your completed project to that post.

So there's lots of them completed projects that are up there, and go through other students' projects, see where they've gone wrong and see what they've done differently or see what they've done better than you. Whatever it is, comparing your work with other students is a great way to progress. And even more so when we get to the other projects that come further down the module because there tends to be a right or wrong answer with these ones here, whereas the later projects will be probably a little trickier to do. So so now it's time for you to go practice. How good is that?

You've got enough information there to be able to go and identify valid m's and w's, so let's see if you can do it. Once you've completed the practice project, you know, do what I said, attach it as a post. So let's have a look at it. Let's see what this practice project is. So you're basically just gonna view some attached charts.

So there's some charts that can be attached, the 5 of them. Identify all possible entries of for all valid m m's and w's. You use the line tools that are there provided for you to draw in the neckline where the entry would be, your stop loss, and your your take profit level. Stop loss, you make it red. Take profit, you make it green so it's all easy to see which way around you're doing it.

And a little bit of a help there, giving you a little bit of a, you know, a cheat sheet on that bit. Compare your results with the answer sheet. Once you've done all 5 of the charts, when you're happy with them and you've spotted all the patterns that are on there, and you're happy that they're all valid, you can open up the answer sheet, and it'll tell you whether you're right or wrong, and then post your project. Don't worry if you get some wrong or miss some or get some that are, you know, not valid or or, you know, I haven't put down on the answer sheet. It's gonna happen.

Of course it is. You know? I want there to be errors. I don't want it to be perfect first time in a way because then it makes you go back and just assess things again. And then the next time you do it, you get it right, and then it's ingrained a lot more.

Really cool. Here are the charts. And so you go through all 5 of those and fill out, you know, where the m's and w's are. And then you click here to get the answer sheet. So nice and straightforward, and the answer sheet pops.

I'm not gonna give you it now. But don't look at it just until you finished all the work. It's absolutely pointless in doing that. Just go, into it. Do all the charts as best you can, then check your answers.

Simple as that. And, yeah, make it visible. Let me see. Let me know how you get on as well. Really, really important.

So, this also shows you how to actually do that, how to share properly. So you're making sure that everybody's got access to the link, and then where to post it, and all the rest. So really, really valuable, on this. And I'll see you in the next live module. But just before we do do that, I wanna go back and just say, if you do have problems and you're really struggling with this, here's how you get help.

Okay? So first of all, make sure you put your best in effort into completing the module. Go back over it. See if you can find the answer yourself because then it will mean more and it will stay in here a lot better. Finding the answer yourself is a lot better than somebody telling you the answer.

So do that first. That's the key bit. Don't shortcut that. And then if you if if you still haven't found it, obviously, at that time, you can create a post in the academy and ask the question to your fellow students. There are a lot of experts now at this method, within the community, and they will be able to help you.

You know, somebody will be prepared to do that. And if you're still unsure, then we wanna make sure that you're covered off on this. So submit a barrier, you know, the the barrier that you're facing. Submit a, in in question for submission form. So you do that through the normal channels, which will then allow me to, to provide the support that you need, and I'll go through it.

Because I'll see your question. I'll I'll work on it, and then I will present my answer to you in the next live session on it. So you will not be left at any time with any question that's burning your brain out that you can't get round or a barrier that's in the way. You'll have the answer to it one way or the other, but just go through the steps. Don't just come straight away and ask me because that it won't go in as well.

Go through the other steps first, and then you'll have it. Then you'll really know it, and you'll have nailed it. So hopefully that's been a value to you, and hope I look forward to really do to seeing how you get on with this, and seeing how your projects pan out, and seeing how well you do, and also to present in the next 2 modules, which are done both together in the next set of this was the big one. The next 2 can be be presented within one session like this, and, that gives you all the little nuances and all the little tricks and things that help you assess patterns better and become, you know, to trade them with better higher probability of success. So I shall leave that with you.
