
So welcome to the 3rd and final module, of my m and w reversal strategy. This is completing the journey, the final piece of the jigsaw. By the end of this module, you'll have added all of the elements that will allow you to be able to trade the m and w reversal method successfully. So hopefully, it's gonna be pretty exciting. To do this, you're gonna learn the following things.

How to identify potential roadblocks that may be in the way of price going to patent completion level, how to manage the trade at these identified roadblocks, how economic news plays a a part in the process, how divergence can increase the probability of trade success, what risk and reward works best with the patterns, and the candle nuances. You know, when to ignore wicks, etcetera. First things first, why should you learn this? Now you've come a long way to this point in the M and W journey. We are now in the exciting last chapter of the course.

In order to get the absolute most out of the method, you need to learn a few more elements that will increase the probability of the patterns going to target. In the rest of this module, we will cover those elements. At the end, you'll have everything you need to know to successfully trade m's and w's, although you still need to diligently practice the elements in order to truly master the techniques. If you don't learn it, this is what is going to happen. Now my dad often said to me, having a little knowledge is a dangerous thing, and it's always stuck with me.

You know, I wouldn't dream of completing a full car engine rebuild when I'd only changed spark plugs and filters and topped up the oil in the past. It would be folly and lead to complete disaster and ultimately cost me a lot of time and money, it'll be incredibly dangerous to do as well. You know, why would you trade a strategy before you know it inside and out? You know, it's it's equally crazy. You get you you'll go cost you time and money to do that.

You know your trade will be inconsistent. You'll become frustrated which leads to poor decision making and you'll be confused not understanding why one pattern plays out beautifully and another one goes straight to your stop loss. Now just imagine for a moment what it'd be like when you can know and apply all the elements of the strategy, allowing you to have full confidence in your trading. You'll have fully complete met a fully complete method that will allow you to draw money out of the market every month. You'll be able to stand tall, being a master of your craft.

As we work through this module here are some keywords you're gonna need to know. Roadblocks, these are levels in the charts that potentially could block the path of price moving from entry to take profit. Weekly trend lines, lines that are drawn on the weekly chart that potentially could block the path. These link significant pivot lows with other pivot lows and pretend and significant pivot highs with other pivot highs and then the support and resistance, this is horizontal price levels in the charts that potentially could block the path again of price moving from entry to take profit. Then there's divergent.

This refers to the refers to the situation in technical analysis where the price of an asset and an oscillator indicator move in opposite directions. This suggests that a potential reversal in price could occur. And then finally, risk to reward. The ratio used to compare the potential profit of a trade to its possible loss, helping to evaluate evaluate the the expected return relative to the risk taken. Here's the tools you'll need.

As usual charting software that, you know, I use and recommend trading view, is the best one out there as far as I'm concerned, but, others are, perfectly adequate. Now let's go over how to complete the m top and w bottom reversal strategy, you know, step by step. You know, we'll we'll go over each step and then you can go ahead and practice it yourself. So the first will be news. We'll talk about economic news and how that how we plan our way around that.

Then we'll look at weekly trend lines, how to plot them and what they mean. Then support and resistance levels, how to assess them. Trade management, what do we do when price reaches those levels? And divergence, this is an area that actually helps us a little bit or can hinder, but mostly we'll be looking for it to help us have higher probability in our trade. Risk to reward.

And then finally, candle nuances. Once we cover these, you'll have everything you need to know, so let's dive in. So first of all, news. Check for economic news releases. Trading particularly on the shorter time frame, so this is 1 hour and below.

I only trade m's and w's on the 1 hour and above, but, you know, so around the 1 hour, time frame, the the run up to the economic data release is very, very risky. It's it's a very dangerous time to be trading when news release comes out particularly on the lower time frames. The market can be highly volatile, making it difficult to predict price movements and lead into potentially significant losses. Price will often whipsaw wildly, taking out many stop losses on both sides. Very typical.

This is typical behavior from institutions. They will use news events to move the market, to move price in both directions, to gain liquidity for to to, to fill their big orders and make sure they can do a nice long push in the right direction for them, but they'll have gained liquidity in both sides, often stopping people out. So what we need to do, how do we do it? We, open up an economic calendar. If you're trading stocks, you open up an earnings report calendar.

I'm not gonna go into detail about, earnings report calendars. They're fairly self explanatory. You need to know when your stock is gonna re report earnings. And if they are reporting earnings, you know, you do not trade on on one day. You do not trade in that day.

You know, you don't trade that stock in that day. And if you've got, obviously, a trade open as, you know, you have to close it before the, the earnings release. Otherwise, you could be hit enormously. Your stop loss will not be respected. It could drain your account significantly.

You can make huge profits, but you can also lose everything you will not be in control of your risk so but I'm gonna concentrate more on forex and what we do with that so we open up an economic calendar we then filter it we're not interested in the one star little lightweight sort of economic releases. They might make the price move a little bit, but it won't really affect us too badly. If you're trading the 5 minute or 15, maybe they do affect a little bit more, but mostly on 1 hour and above, they don't impact price very much at all. So we filter to see just the 2 star, which are the orange events, and the 3 star, which are the red news events that happening in the near future. As in, like, today or if we're trading late in the day, what's happening early tomorrow morning?

The lower the time frame that you trade in, the more effective price will be on the print of the economic data as I mentioned before. So check to see if the news releases are relevant to the instrument you are trading. Not all news releases releases will be. You know, understand that if it is a 3 star event out of the United States, so let's say a non farm payroll, so NFP release, for example, then most instruments will be affected to a lesser or greater degree. It's it has that bigger impact.

It spreads outside of just the US dollar. So the euro if you if you trade in the pound euro or something, it will still move strongly, you know, on the back of the n f f NFP re result. But if you get a, a fairly gentle three star, report out of the UK, for instance, then the chances are the Aussie dollar won't be affected by that. So it has to be relevant to what you are trading, and and you learn which ones are affected as time goes on. It's too difficult to actually go through that in detail here, too time consuming, and also it would only be relevant to now at this time now, and it it is a movable feast.

It does change over time, so it would be irrelevant maybe in 6 months or a year's time. But you have to get used to that experience to teach you which which ones move, which ones to to steer clear of, which 2 star events are are are bigger movers of price than than other ones, and it will vary with time, as I say, whatever's flavor of the month at the time. At the minute, we've got inflation happened for the last year or so where anything to do with inflation is moves the market a lot. And so it but it before then, inflation, even a 3 star inflation report coming out, was irrelevant pretty much. It didn't move the market at all cause inflation was very much under control.

And we'll come back to that state no doubt at some time. So when trading the 1 hour time frame, do not take a trade within 3 hours of a relevant 3 star red event, or within 2 hours of a 2 star orange event that is relevant to your currency pair or commodity that you're trading. Now when trading the 4 hour time frame, I'm not so concerned about 2 star events, you know, and I'll only not take a trade if it is within 3 hours of a relevant 3 star event, with the exception of NFP and FOMC interest rate decision when I don't take a trade on the 4 hour time frame within 6 hours of the data release. Now if you have any open trades that are likely to be affected by a 3 star data release and the news is about to happen, then you need to close all relevant open trades. Doesn't matter whether you're in profit or loss, you just get out of there because you couldn't be hurt by that move.

It can go to stop loss in a heartbeat, and spreads widen at that time as well. It tends to be that the brokers love to just let let those spreads widen a little bit at that time. You get enormous amounts of slippage. Don't if anybody's ever tried to trade the news, you think, oh, yes. That's a better than expected data release.

I will buy that currency pair now. And you buy it, and you your entry is 25 pips above where you thought it was gonna be. Because you get the slippage, spread widening, everything. It's really, really tough time to trade. So you're better off being out of there.

Close the trade. Done. If you have any open trades on the 1 hour time frame that are like to be affected by a 2, star data release and the news is about to happen, then again, you really should be closing that trade or any trades that are open. Again, whether they're in profit or loss, doesn't matter. However, on the positive side, news can often help us when trading m's and w's.

It pushes price strongly in one direction or the other a reversal passion pat pattern even often occurs at the end of this run and we can trade that move back I've really enjoyed trading this type of price action because price tends to push further than it should do on a on a news release. It whips all about and then push in one direction, and it overshoots tends to overshoot. And then like a a train trying to slow down, it slows down a bit, and then it decides, oh, no. I've gone too far. I need to reverse back up to the station.

So then it comes back, and, you know, you can we can trade that reversal. Like, stretch and elastic band, it gets overstretched, bounces back. So if you have a look at it here in the charts, we've got some price action here that is derived from better than expected CPI report from the US, out of the US. So we've had those big push up in price here. Then at the top of that run, we get a little reversal pattern at m top in this case, and we can benefit from the move thereafter as price just settled back to a more sensible level after that impulsive move and a knee jerk reaction to the news.

Same sort of thing the other way around. This time we've got UK average earnings index, worse than expected. So, the this GBP pair fell, and we had this sell off. Again, goes a fairly long way down, decides actually we've gone a bit too far here. It's put in the bottom in pattern, which is a w, and then we take profit from the move back up.

Happens very very often, and a really high probability trade to do. Now I want to have a look at this in more detail. So let's have a little look at the economic calendars for a start and just show you how to filter for the 2 star and 3 star events. I use forexfactoryandinvesting.com'seconomiccalendar here. This one's set this is just for today, Thursday, and we've got everything set pretty much to to show us.

And there's loads and loads of information, loads of it here. Most of it is totally irrelevant. We don't need a lot of this stuff here. And so there are filters that we can apply. And so if we click on filters, then we can find that 4 of which is here at the top.

So filters and so when we're looking at it in this view, we click on filters that opens up the filters here which we can now thin this down by we might not be interested in news out of Finland or Greece or even India for that matter or Norway. Thin it down. Just make it a little bit neater so that less information on your screen that is you know, you only got the information that's relevant. We'll keep all of these open, these categories here because, you know, we can be you know, I think these are all relevant to to trading and price movements. Then important, we only are interested in the 2 star and 3 star so we can get rid of the 1 star.

Once we've done that, we click apply and suddenly what we had before is thinned down and condensed to an awful lot better and less, less confusing set of data. Busy day to day with news, and you can see an awful lot of information here. 3 star events going on and, from I have the the UK and the US here today. So it's a really busy day. Several of them.

So there's a lot. Normally, it's not as busy as this. In forex factory, if we click on that again, filters, which are p f top right. Click on that. Opens up the filter.

You can you do it this time by currency. So we'll leave all those open. We can get rid of China if you're not interested in trying trading that currency, but I'll leave it open because I do trade that. And then we've got the expected impact here. We're not interested in the yellow ones.

So we can get rid of that and just keep the orange and red ones around. Apply the filter and suddenly now we've got a lot less information on there and only relevant ones. This is a whole week's worth of information. It's a busy news week. So even with a whole week's worth, it's still not a huge amount of data to to have to absorb absorb on every day.

Today's a ridiculously busy day, and it doesn't but if you see Tuesday, it's a few little events there that you can navigate your way around. And Monday, there was nothing at all that was 2 star or 3 star. So Monday was all free on there. Thursday, again, a busy day, quite a few, red events, which we need to navigate around, obviously, and be aware of this happening. You do not take trades in front of those, red events.

Like on the one hour, you wouldn't take them within 3 hours of those red events happening. And so you got all the time in here. You know exactly what's happening. You You can see which currency pairs are gonna be affected or the currency pair that's gonna be affected, but don't forget you can get correlated pairs that are affected as well. So all the information is there.

Use it. Make sure you do. Don't get caught out because it's so frustrating when you do. You have a really good trade going in your profit, in direction of profit, and then suddenly you forget there's a news event. News event comes on, sends you straight down to stop loss.

Very, very frustrating. Okay. So step 2, plot weekly trend lines. Weekly trend lines are really powerful. You know, price usually respects them and reacts by reversing direction at least temporarily.

Price does respect them. You know, if you have one that's between your entry and you take profit, then the chances of trade working out successfully are greatly reduced. So how do you do this? So you open up a weekly chart of the instrument you're thinking of trading. You scrunch it up so that you have many years of data.

It depends on what charting package you've got to how much data you can get. But, you know, if you can go back 10 years or more, then that's great. You can get a lot. The the the weaker trend lines are really powerful from I usually go back around about 20 years, and then move forward from there. If you don't, just go back as far as you can and do it from, from the furthest point you can go back to.

Now you need to pick 2 or 3 of the most obvious pivot highs and 2 or 3 of the most obvious pivot lows. They are your starting points. They are the ones that you're gonna draw your lines from. So this is an example here of a chart where we have a couple of significant pivot highs here and we've drawn lines from those attaching them to other pivot highs. Less obvious ones, but still significant pivot highs.

Don't forget this is a weekly chart. So these are all quite big movements in price. We're scrunched it up. We've gone back to 2,008. That's fine.

Then we picked here on the bottom, a pivot low here. This is the very lowest in the chart. That's essential to get that one. And then a couple more that you can use that are still the most significant. They always tend to stand out.

You can see that one, that one, and that those shout out to me as being the ones we should be using. And this one and that one clearly are the 2 that we should use. I've actually added in this one as well as as the next most significant one and taken a couple of lines off that as well. Now it looks busy, it looks messy, but this is what you do. You select the trend line tool and click on the first of these pivot highs.

Join that trend line to the net sorry. Join this to to the next significant pivot high and extend the line to the right. You you're all you're doing is joining a pivot high here to another pivot high which is here and extend the line out. It's essential to get it right though and accurate. Now you repeat the process, you keep doing it until this pivot high is connected to all other significant pivot highs.

Now it's essential that you pin the lines exactly to the top of the wick of each pivot high and you can use the magnet tool to help you do this I will show you how to do this in a second and then you repeat the process for the other 1 or 2 most obvious pivot highs until you've got a chart that looks very much like the one that I had before. Now repeat the process for the most obvious pivot lows and attach each one in turn to all other significant pivot lows. If a weekly trend line is in the path, if you take profit then walk away from the trade and look for the next opportunity. They're that powerful. I very rarely take a trade when there's a weekly trend line in the way of, you know, price getting to my take profit.

So be very, very careful with this. So this is a closer up version as zoomed in for the recent price action of that, that chart that I showed you. It looks really busy, doesn't it? It isn't particularly. It is one of the busier charts that's why I wanted to show you it, but it is, these don't forget a weekly candles, big ranges on these.

There's hundreds of pips between these lines here. So on the 1 hour time frame and 4 hour time frame, there's lots and lots of room for price to move. You won't even see sometimes some of the lines on your chart at all because it they're just so far apart when you've zoomed down to or, you know, you go down to a 1 hour time frame, for instance. Now if a weekly trend line, this is an example of that, is between entry and pattern completion level, then you probably should walk away. It just makes sense to do so.

Here's one here going through this sort of weekly trend line cutting through. We've got this w bottom here from a lovely rundown in price. You think all good, great stuff. Let's take this on the break of the neckline. Here's pattern completion level.

It's risky. This one's high up in the pattern so you might get away with it. Price could get through and, you know, go to to profit take profit, you know, before reversing or, you know, or not. But you're taking a bigger risk. The probabilities are reduced.

So be careful. Be careful on this. So if we have a look at this now, this is a really busy chart. Yeah? This is a lot of work to put these these lines in.

Yeah. Of course, this. But once they're in, they're in. You only have to update them occasionally. And so it doesn't take a lot lot more work after this.

This is one of the busier charts I've got. If you look at some of the others, they are, you know, less busy. Yeah. This one's quite busy but it's nothing like as busy as that one. Here.

And we go right the way back up to here. So how do we do put the lines in? I'll I'll zoom in so you can see it a little bit better here. Let's say that we wanted to use we don't particularly and I wouldn't particularly do this. Let's say we wanted to use this as a significant pivot low.

And we wanted to add a chart add a line in, I would be linking it to other significant pivot lows like these 2 here. So the way we do it this is the magnet tool here by the way. So normally it's off. So you come in, you'd click to the bottom of this here and then you would join it up to the bottom of this one here. Now that might be accurate but it might not be.

And it's essential to be accurate because obviously as price moves as the price moves along and as time develops then this line is gonna get further and further away from being accurate. So it has to be spot on. So the way you do that is zoom in a little bit, click the magnet function, so you've got this here. As as you said, as you move the cursor along to the side, just move it along and it jumps to the next candle. Move it along a bit further, jumps to the next candle.

A bit further, jumps to the next one and then the next one there. You don't have to then set it, exactly because it will do it for you as long as you're careful and then here we're linking it to this one here that one and so I don't want it linked to this one here nor this one I want it linked to this one here and it will either go to the body or the width whichever you're closest to and so that's done it That's linked those perfectly together. We know we're absolutely on the bottom of those. And as we move through, see how price respected it here and has respected it here. Even though this isn't a massively significant pivot low, you know, it's still obviously respected.

And if we do the same with this one here, we'll take one off this and link it to this here. Again, you can see it jump As I move the cursor across, it will jump to that panel. And that's it. Brilliant. You're in.

You're done. See how that respects it. Brilliant. So that's how you do it. You just just have to get used to doing it.

It takes a little bit of time, but once you've done it, you've done it. And how useful is it gonna be for you? Saves you a lot. You know, you can already see on these how much, you know, price does respect these lines, and it does. And it respects it even more when you when you drill down to the 1 hour and smaller time frames because, you know, they do react often several, several times to, you know, to have a look at.

So hope that's clear, on this. Have a little go in the charts when you, when you finish this. There'd be a practice project to do and then go and just keep on doing it and build the build the charts. Don't have to do them all in one go. You can take your time and and do it and do it over a period of weeks if you want to do so, but they are essential to get right and do pay dividends.

So moving on. Step 3. So will they won't they? Assess and plot support and resistance levels. You know?

What is the step? It's to assess you know whether price is likely to reverse at a certain level. So why is it important? You know price levels that have consistently active support and resistance in the past are likely to act as support and resistance in the present and future. Yeah.

Therefore it's important to know where these are. You know in order to be able to plan your trade around them or even walk away from the setup if the levels are too strong or too near your entry level. How do you do it? Well with the horizontal line tool you mark any breaks or pauses in the impulsive price action that led into the pattern. So if it's not smooth, if there are little pullbacks in there you need to be marking these up.

These breaks and pauses should only be considered if they are or if they occur between entry and you take profit level. Then you go up one time frame. If you're looking at the 1 hour setup, you go up to the 4 hour chart. And you observe and assess how price has reacted in the past to that level that you've marked or the levels that you've marked. If price has bounced off these levels strongly and repeatedly more than twice, then the level should be treated as a as a significant support and resistance level.

The strength of this level increases if it has acted as both support and resistance in the past and the big moves off that. So I want to see quite big moves off these levels and, you know, strong reversals both and where it's acted as support and resistance, so both ways. Then it gives you a clue how strong they are, and the the more times it does that, the bigger the moves up, the more times it reverses it both ways, the stronger the level is. So let's assess where these strong s and r levels are in the structure of your setup this is very important. The nearer they are to your entry level the more important they become.

If it or they occur very close to your potential trade, then you it may be prudent to ignore the setup. In fact, it very often is. I mostly walk away from trade setups that have strong levels or reasonable levels of support and resistance just beyond entry. So you get into the trade, then you find price reverses quite quickly off that support or resistance level and goes quickly close to your stop loss if not through it. So, I do walk away from those.

Now if they are a reasonable distance away from entry, so let's, you know, roughly halfway to patent completion level as a guide, then it may be possible to manage the trade when price runs into the support and resistance level. Now I'll cover managing the trade in the next step. The same procedure should be followed for any recent pivot highs or lows that are between entry and take profit. Okay? So this is this is price action that's just before the latest impulsive move up.

If you've got a really significant pivot high or pivot low that's occurring there, then why has that happened? It's reversed off a level. What is that level doing? You need to assess it. You know, you need to understand if these levels are significant levels or just sort of one off or or not really that important level where prices reacted almost randomly, you know, and therefore insignificant.

You can pretty much ignore. So we looked at these last time in the module, in the second module. Example of of good excellent price action leading into a pattern. All, you know, one colored candles, impulsive move, no pauses in there worth of note. You know, not many significant retraces.

They're really good movers in. However, you know, with these here, then we've got pattern completion level here from a from a an m top. There's no issue for this pause here. This this red candle that's happened on the way up and where everything else is green, no issue because it's below pattern completion levels. So we're not worried about it.

This one, yes, we are bothered because this could potentially block the path. We need to know more about that. We need to do more analysis. And here, we've got a couple of levels, couple of pauses on the way down in this impulsive move down. There's pattern completion level.

That one's no issue to us. It's above it. Not a problem. This one, oh. Awkward.

Need to assess it. Is that really strong? If it is, then we need to manage our trade around it. Now that there are circumstances where it's better to walk away as I mentioned. If if you get one of these areas like we have here, for instance, where we've had a pause very close to where our entry level will be, our neckline of pattern, then we will, be in trouble or potentially be in trouble.

The probabilities are are lower for our trade going to target. And more importantly, we're gonna have a a difficulty in managing the trade at that level because it's it we hit it very quickly after entering the trade. We haven't got into profit very much at all, if at all. And suddenly price could reverse, you know. And when and we could be stuck stuck in the trade until it hits stop loss.

So very, very important to know where these levels are in the charts. Another example here, we've got another red candle, and all of this are green. And so we need to be aware of that just below entry. Would you take that? No.

I wouldn't. Could go to target, but you your your options are reduced and your probabilities are reduced. Now on the way down another one here again very similar. That level will be just bang on where your entry is. Do you wanna be there taking a trade when you've got a proven or a likely support and resistance level that's there?

So let me come back actually and go into the charts on this and we'll have a little look at this in more detail and how it actually looks in sort of the live charts. So in this case here we've got the euro US dollar where we've got price that's moved down strongly, push back up and we've come back down we've got a w bottom we can measure that to make sure it's it correctly it is. It is a valid setup. So passing completion levels here, is there anything potentially on that run down in price that could be in the way that blocks us? Are there any pauses?

Any candles the opposite color or anything like that? Yes. There are. So here we go. So we mark that up and I tend to do it with the body of the candle that's there.

When it's got a reasonable sized body, I use the body of the candle to do this. That's what price respects most often. So that level there is clearly in the way of getting to target, but it's reasonably well up in the pattern. And so, you know, reasonably well up towards target. And so we can there's a little bit of room here.

When we trigger into the trade, there's room to get there we're in good profit at this level we can then just manage it around that level and I'll show you how to do that but that level needs to be assessed Do we know if this level is just a little one off pause, or was it something that has actually caused, you know, been significant in the past? And so the way that we can do that is you can use a horizontal line, put a horizontal line either side of this, or just extend this box left. Okay. So this rectangle gets extended out left and we have a look and you can see the price is already looking like it's actually respecting that level there. But what we do is go up a time frame.

So it allows us to look a little bit quicker and easier at things if we go up to the in this case, it would be a 4 hour time frame. And you can see how prices respected this level when it came down to it. Not significant particularly here. A little bit of respect. Yeah.

Absolutely. But nothing, you know, major major there. Yes. Definitely here. Prices come down quite strongly.

Reacted off that. Pushed off very strongly. Similar there. Not, not quite on the level. And a very strong move off there.

So, yes, it is acting another one there. Big move off. It is acting as definite support and resistance. I wouldn't say it's uber strong, but it is, it is definitely a significant level of support and resistance, so we need to be aware of it. We've got it marked up.

Go back to the 1 hour. And we know now I can plan this. We're not triggered into the trade yet. I know that's an area of significance, and I want to be managing my trade around it. It won't stop me taking the trade.

It's not strong enough to do that, certainly, and very few are as long as the if they're well up in the pattern, you know, well up in the, on the way to target. If this was lower down, then very different. But we've got room. We can manage it. So that's fine.

Now we'll have a look at another one. So pound Japanese yen. This time we'll go on the 4 hour time frame. Here we go. There is a a rundown in price.

Push back up and a rundown so we've got this w pattern that's that's formed at this level here. You'll be doing your due diligence on it to see whether you want to actually take the trade. Plenty of time to do it. You've got hours and hours, 4 hour chart. You know, you start you start doing it as soon as the pattern is valid, which will be set probably on this candle here.

When that closes, you'll start doing you your analysis or you might even do it before anticipating it for me. So there are several levels here that we need to be aware of. First one is immediately here. And the second one is here. And then the third one is here.

Now this is quite significant. You don't very often get 3 levels like this potentially blocking the way to pattern completion. So it's it's one that would be tricky to take. This is it's lower probability when this happens. It certainly with 3 in the way, but we need to know.

Are they any good? And you go back in time and have a little look exactly what we did before and assess each one. So we can leave those on there and go back. We need to go up a time frame, so we go up onto the daily, which is here. And we can see the top one.

Yes. Being respected. Move up. Push off it. And again, here.

The middle one, yeah, reasonably respected comes down and pushes off at the bottom on a little bit there as well. Let's go back now. This is the Japanese yen involved, so this will be a long way back. I'm not suggesting you could go back as far as this necessarily to check things out, but we have no price action to check. So the procedure is the same.

Usually, you will have price action that's happening within the last year or so on a 4 hour or on the daily. Yeah. Year last year or 2, you won't be looking at. You don't need to go back any further than that normally. But just we haven't got any price action at that level on the Japanese yen, so we keep on going back.

We're going back all the way to 2,008. Why not? We've got a little time machine, haven't we? So so we look nothing of significance there happening, but then yes. Then yes.

So the top one clearly is respected. Bottom one got some respect in there now. The middle one, yes. Not as much on the bottom. The bottom one's the least so far.

Let me just go a little fraction, see if there's anything else. Yeah. The top one again, respected. So top one definitely strong. Middle one's sort of medium ish and bottom one fairly weak is what we've got as an assessment.

And so when we come back to it, we know that this bottom one is fairly weak, but it's right to entry. So you gotta make a judgment on that. Is it weak enough for us to take the trade? Well, again, I'm pretty cautious on these. I'll normally walk away from them.

But let's say you're more cavalier than I am and you decide to take that trade, but you're very much aware that price could reverse off it, then you've gotta be looking to manage it straight away, and you could be almost certainly taking a loss on that trade. But if you've assessed it's been very weak, then you might believe that it's going to get through that level. And as it is just pull that along a little bit. It did go through that level and then run into the second level that was we identified as been a little bit stronger anyway. But I'll come back to this and talk about how we managed the trade anyway, just in a second.

Okay. Then we'll have a look at silver. Silver's a showing, this price action here. So again, we'd have this run down in price, move back up and a push down again. Here, so we got w bottom forming.

Have we got anything of any significance here? Well, not really. Okay. There's a little pause here, but nothing really significant. So that's, you know, okay.

This area. Okay. Let's have a little look at that. Let's see. Well, that is actually below our entry.

So is that of any consequence? No. It's not to us. We're not really worried about that. It's below our entry.

So if price gets through this level, then it's acting as a protection for us, acting as support for us. So that's not a bad thing on there. So that is nothing to worry about at all. So if it's below our entry, it's okay. You know, we see prices actually responded to it a little bit.

And it bounced off it here, but it did get through eventually. Now that's no issue at all. Once it's through, you see, once we cleared this this area here, we're through, we're in, we're into the trade at this level, all good, all clear goes up. And then we'll have a look at the Aussie dollar CAD. One more example here.

This is an example of of strong resistance. I've drawn a level in here which doesn't look like it's necessary acting a strong resistance particularly. These tend to be sort of zones a little bit rather than being just a single line, so this would be clustered bouncing off the resistance here. But when we go back a little bit further you'll see why I have it marked in the chart. You can see how it's bounced very consistently off this level, and it's bounced off it both ways.

So here it's acted as resistance and pushed off it quite strongly. Once it's broken through, it's come back and acted as support and pushed off it quite significantly. So has this been going on for a while? You know, obviously that's a strong level anyway. Yep.

It is. Look. Bounce bounce bounce. This is a super strong level. You have one like this, then you're gonna have difficulty getting through it.

Here. Look. Here. Here. Here.

Right the way back more than a year ago on the 4 hour chart, this is acting perfectly to the pit pretty much as as resistance. So that's one that you need to be very much aware of. If that was blocking your way to price then you might be better to walk away because it is likely that price will react to that. It has done before. I know it didn't here particularly but doesn't mean it won't do at the time.

Better to play it safe on this. Now one last thing to have a look at here is when we're looking at pauses on the way down in price here, normally we're looking for an opposite colored candle. And so this is all red all the way down here. You're thinking, oh, great. Impulsive mood.

No problem at all. That's really cool. But this area here has definitely been a pause. And if you see when you've got these wicks going both sides and small bodies and that, that's quite significant in the rundown or up in price. And so that should be treated pretty much in the same way as you would treat a green candle at that level.

And so long wicks either side and small bodies, and particularly if you get 2 of them together like this, that happens to be quite significant and can often react to price. Now this is absolutely live in the markets today, actually, as it's happening now, and price is reacting to it. As soon as price came up to that level, you saw here that, you know, we're we we can't really get through there. We're banging ahead against it and not liking it at all. So, again, we need to know about these and be aware of them and do our due diligence and look back in time to see what was happening, and it's acted as, you know, a bit of support again and would go back further and look at that.

So this is experience you need to really look for these and to learn about support and resistance. It's okay, you know, you learning it and actually sort of just looking at it and understanding what you need to do, but you actually have to really spend time in the markets to fully understand what is going on. And it's very difficult to be a finished article at it. I don't profess to be. I get better all the time with this.

This time I've been trading the markets for 17 years, and I'm better now than I was 2 years ago definitely at at reading price action where support and resistance levels are. And I want to continue to improve. I wanna get better every single day if I can. Certainly, every every year I want to be better. So it takes time.

So the management side of it. What do we do when price comes up to these lesser the the these levels? You know, why is it important? You know, I don't like to waste the opportunity of earning from a valid trade setup. You know, it's very easy to see roadblocks, you know, of that are supporting resistance level, and you choose to walk away from the trade because you find them happening a lot.

Now that's fine. Yeah. You you'll only be trading grade a setups, which again is absolutely fine, but you will severely reduce the number of trades that you take, and this can impact your bottom line. You know, if you're getting an 80% success rate just trading grade a's, then but you've only only taken a quarter of the number of trades that you would do if you, you know, trading grade a's and b's or whatever that means, and you get 70% success rate when you link the 2 together, then you'd actually earn more money trading the a's and b's rather than just the a's on their own. So you do need to be you do need to be aware of that, and not just paralyze yourself from from taking trades because it will have impact your bottom line.

If we follow if you follow the process we just talked about, of identifying where these support and resistance levels are, then you can actually manage your trade around it and still protect your capital. So this is how you do it. So you assess where the support and resistance levels are located within the structure of your trade setup. This is really key like I mentioned to you. If it's very close to entry, walk away.

For all others, do the following. Apologies. Observe how price reacts when it reaches the support and resistance level. It could go straight through without blinking, but it is more likely that it will retrace off the level a little bit at least. Now we need to assess whether this is a short lived reversal or a significant one that could compromise the integrity of the patent and hence our stop loss.

We have to know this. So mostly price will retrace before gathering strength to push through to the next level. It will retrace off these levels. That's fine. But it's just normally just gathering a bit of strength to get the enough push to get through to the pattern completion level.

However, if we see a pin bar or an engulfing candle or a tweezer pair of candles, and then price breaks above the top of those candles in a an m top trade or below the bottom of those candles in the w bottom trade, then we close the trade manually whether we're in profit or loss. Just like a machine, just do it. Now once the price has broken through that level, let's assume the price breaks through and closes above or below that level, depending on which direction you trade in, then all is good. We do not need to worry about the potential roadblock anymore at this level. You know, it'll actually now be acting as a protection for us because I we've got through that level so it's gonna be difficult to get back back the other way through it so it protects our trade.

Manually closing the trade at the appropriate time ensures that we take the most valid setups without exposing our stop loss and account unduly. We don't just take the ridiculously brilliant perfect setups where all the ducks align. We take slightly less than perfect ones, but we know what we're doing. We're actually managing the trade. Being consistent and rule based is our approach, and it improves it was improved my trading enormously just to do the same thing time and time and time again, because I know what the results are gonna be if I do it for a long period of time.

The law of averages come out, you know, the big number, the law of numbers. Only closing the trade when we see significant reversal price action of a key level ensures that we do not emotionally close trades. Absolutely key. It's a recipe for disaster. So here's a little example, probably not the very best, but here we go.

We've got patent completion level, from this m top trade. We know we've identified this level here as being a potential roadblock to the price. It's in the way of a pattern completion price comes down with versus off it, and we close out the trade. Now there isn't a you know, there's a block of tweezer bottom there that we've closed it out of. If you're not seeing these to better close it out on any of these candles, then this is a very clear pin candle here.

There's a bullish pin candle, the body's at the top of it compared to the long wick at the bottom. When price breaks above that level, we close out the trade. So the range of this candle the whole range of this candle when the when the high of that candle is taken out, you close the trade. That's it. Now in this case, then if you're more advanced, you might see, as I say, a tweezer bottom on that, that you better close out a little bit earlier and being actually profit at the time.

But that would be the obvious closing time, and that would mean that you might be in a very small loss, but you protected your capital and you're ready to fight another day. It's the most it's the best way to go about it. So let's have a look at this. Let's go back into the charts again and have a little look. So look at the one we looked at before this pound Japanese yen trade here.

We've identified these levels here. We've gone through it already. We've discussed prices come through that first level we've gone into the second level we have a pin candle so that is a pin candle formed right we're aware price has gone into it we're managing the trade so what do we do do we close it no not yet because the low of that pin candle has not been broken through so what happens next is the low broken no it hasn't so therefore we're still in the trade, but another pin candle is in place. So again, another pin candle. What do we do?

We have to wait for the low of that to be broken through, and it's broken on this one. So immediately that the price breaks the low of this pin candle here, we close the trade manually. So at this level here, done. You're out of it. You're out the trade.

You don't wait for this candle to close or anything, you close it. And what you can do is move your stop loss up. So when these candles are forming here so once you've got this situation here, you think okay. So if the low of this candle, this pin candle, is gonna be broken, I will have to be out the trade. So you don't have to be hanging over the chart.

All you do is move the stop plot stop loss up from down here, and you push it up to be just below this candle here. That's fine. And then as the next candle forms, you move your stop loss up again to be under that candle because that's a pinned candle. If the low of that one's broken, you're out the trade. And then that will be triggered once price does this.

So you don't have to worry about being at the charts done for you. And if price had continued going up and not broken through the the low of this one here then you move your stop loss back down to its original position. You don't leave it up here. Okay. So let's have a look at the euro US dollar version that we had before.

It's on the 1 hour time frame. Little w bottom form in here. So I won't run it through in bar replay but price came up to this level here broke through the neckline powered on up into the, into the zone that we've picked and identified. We've had a pin candle here, so we move our stop loss up to just below that level. And then we get another pin candle here, so we move the stop level stop loss again below that, and that's triggered and we're out the trade.

In a profit, halfway almost to profit target. Fine. Saved us from didn't always do this, sometimes it will gather strength again and go up, but it will do this more often than that. And so this protects you. Very, very important.

Often, as I say, price will just continue going. And, here we have an example of a price going up, pushing down, going up again here. Let's say book price was coming down to this level here, which it did do. It reacted. Pin candle here.

You've got your stop loss above this level, didn't get triggered. This candle didn't go above that high, and then it gathered a bit of strength and pushed down through. And that's what will happen, probably more times than not, but we are aware and we're ready to act if we get a pin candle that then sees the top of that taken out or broken above, we close the trade. Step 5. We need we're getting there.

We're getting there now. These are slightly less, onerous modules on this part or steps, to go through, so, we can do that a little bit quicker now. But divergent is something that we've we've we've we've talked about the negatives. A lot of the elements we've looked at so far could be perceived as negatives. Things that could reduce the chances of trade success.

It's time now to look at something that will increase the probability of a trade going to target. So now this is divergence. So how do we do it? What do we do? We apply the relative strength index which is the RSI indicator to the chart of the trade setup.

You can leave the settings at their default values of the RSI, not a problem. I like to make it more visible and so I increase the size of the line and take away the moving average part of it, but that's just personal taste on it. Now if we're looking at an m top setup, compare the significant pivot highs of price with the respective highs of their RSI indicator. If the highs of the price of price is making the opposite of the RSI highs. So for example, price is making a higher high or higher highs.

When the RSI is making lower highs or a lower high, then we have divergence in play. And the probability of price reversing increases. Let's have a little look at it on the chart. We have price action and the RSI here. Fairly clean, fairly straightforward, nothing more needed on your chart.

If we compare these peaks here on price with the RSI the respective RSI peaks then we see that we have divergence. Price is moving and making lower highs whereas the RSI is making a higher high. So they are divergent. So we have hidden bearish divergence. It doesn't really matter what we call it.

As long as you can identify it because all divergences are pretty much equal. They do have the effect of expecting price to move the other way. So after we've had this pullback it was we've now determined that price has moved far enough we are diverging and so it's ready now to take the next leg down. And if we have an m top form here is not particularly good one here but if we have an m top form at this level here then it is more likely that we're gonna get a win. If we take a trade then it would be if Divergent wasn't present and I do like to increase probabilities.

So the same for a w bottom setup. So if we're looking at that, we compare the significant pivot lows of price with the respective lows of the RSI. If the lows of the price, they're making the opposite to the RSI lows, then we have divergence in play. So then we go up a time frame. This is important and do the same analysis.

If divergence is present on that, on the higher time frame this is even more significant than on the same time frame. I'm a big advocate of going up a time frame and checking for divergence. If you see that it is powerful. Now the important thing to remember is you ignore divergence between the two sides of the M OR W. Okay.

So let's have a look at the first bit which is comparing lows of price with the lows of the RSI. So here we have price making a lower low whereas the RSI is making a higher low so we have divergence in play and this is regular bullish divergence. We can expect price to move this way. We don't know exactly when it's gonna move it just gives us a little bit of a heads up about the future. It suggests that the next significant move will be up, and that's what we usually we get.

And so if we see a bottom in pattern which we've got a little bit of one here, we've got to move down, push back up, push down, so we've got this w bottom. Whether you would trade it or not is another question. I don't think you would from what we just talked about, and it wasn't really room for it to get a pattern completion, but you get the point. If you get this here, this bottom in pattern happening, then the the the odds are increased that price will continue to move up because there's divergence in play. So if we look now at an m top here, which is a quite a convoluted one.

There's a double m. It's an m top and a small m top then a big one. So we got push up in price, pull back, push up again here, break the neckline here. That's a little m top. It's in play, went to target.

Push up in price, came back down, used this as the middle part, push up again, see break in the neckline, goes down to target. Great. And you're saying, oh, great. There's divergence in play as well. Look at that.

See? We're making higher highs whereas the RSA is making lower highs. Nope. We ignore that. We absolutely ignore the divergence between the two sides of an m.

If you look at this, this one is lower. We only compare the bodies of the candles, not the because the RSI is printed after the body, based on the close of the candles. So we compare light for light, so it has to be the bodies. And so we have divergence here sorry. The the the right side of the m is higher than the left side here, whereas the corresponding bit, this is lower than that.

And that will nearly always happen, and that's why we ignore it because it will happen 80% of the time. So it's not giving us an advantage. And the same here, you know, this is lower than this side, whereas this is higher than this side, doesn't matter. That will happen nearly every time. Whenever we've got the right side in an m higher than the left, you'll see divergence happening in that small area, but we're not bothered about it.

Ignore. I know it worked out here, but it doesn't matter probabilities are it doesn't have well, it doesn't add any probabilities to it. Okay. So let's move on. Step 6, 2 risky man.

Understanding and optimizing risk and reward very, very important. Optimizing risk, you know, the risk to reward is not necessarily about increasing the reward when compared to the risk. It's actually just making sure that your your your pattern is most likely to go. You're better off going most times to 1, you know, and getting a one to one return than only a few times going and getting a 2 to 1 return. It's it's about balance.

And I've worked out over the years that actually one to 1 is pretty damn close to the optimum level. The pattern goes that one to 1 distance very very often where it goes a lot less times 2 to 1. And so the optimum level is 1 to 1, but there are occasions where you can extend it out a little bit further than what we've talked about before, like with inefficient candles and the like. Controlling your risk and reward are always key to being a successful trader, and it's often overlooked. We get a bit cavalier with our entries not consistent.

How do you do it? Always go for a one to one risk to reward unless there is something obvious to extend your target like an inefficient candle. And even then, it is often prudent to split you trade into 2 parts, closing the 1st trader at 1 to 1 and letting the second cut run to your extended target. So at least you're banking some profits. In case it doesn't make it all the way to get that inefficient candle on that first push or the square of the inefficient candle.

Don't forget to take into account the broker's spread into the calculation for your 1 to 1 or, you know, risk to reward. This will be different for each instrument and each broker, so be careful with this. I've I've I've covered this in-depth in the second module, so go and have a refresher on that if you need to do very important. And here's a really important rule that will save you a lot of frustration. Only consider taking a trade if the identified stop loss size so this is the correct stop loss for the pattern is a minimum of 10 times the broker spread Okay?

So for example, if the broker spread that you've got for whatever you're trading at 2.1 pips, then the pattern should have a normal stop loss of at least 21 pips 10 times the amount if the usual stop loss for the pattern is less than 21 pips do not extend the stop loss and because you'll have to extend then the take profit to to compensate for that. Don't do it. Don't do it to make it fit. You'd use the usual stop loss. What's the correct stop loss for the pattern and is it 10 times as big as the pip spread?

Walk away from the setup if it's not just because the problem is if you've got you know, if you're aiming for 10 pips and you've got a broker spread of 2 pips, that's a big percentage of your profit target that you're going on is 20% of it and if you take that at both ends which is what you have to do that's 40%. You're gonna have to get a 1.4 to 1 reward to risk just to get a 1 to 1. And that's where we come unstuck very often of retail traders not understanding this concept really important a minimum of 10% of 10 times your pip should be used on this. Really really important. Step 7.

Taking it up another level. So let's have a look at the little nuances of candle wicks. So rogue wicks rogue wicks, you know, one wick yeah. Well, one wick that's higher, you know, significantly larger than any others on on either side of the pattern can be ignored for stop loss purposes. You know in order to remove all doubts about the whole method of trading m's and w's you need to know about advanced nuances you know of setups knowing and understanding the concepts will take your confidence to the next level and ultimately make you more profitable.

So this is a good example, a rogue wick. If it's just one wick that's sticking up on one side of you know, on either side of the at on both sides of the pattern, you can disregard it. So here's an example. So we've got the, this m top that's formed. We have a rogue wick that's sticking up.

That's totally different to anything else that's there in the pattern. It's not part of it. You can disregard it. If you don't, then you would have your stop loss right up there, which is okay, and your take profit would have to be because a minimum of 1 to 1, which will be right down there. Now that means you gotta get through this nasty area here all the way through and below it.

Where so this is incorrect. This is the correct level. You ignore that wick and so you disregard it as though it's not even there and you take your stop loss from the next highest point of the pattern which is here, so that's the correct stop loss there, which then makes our take profit a lot more achievable because it only has to touch into that area rather than go right the way through it. Another example here, this is an example where we'll call these rogue wicks. They're only just rogue wicks.

This is the absolute on the limit of what a rogue wick is. This is almost part of the pattern these are. But I would just class these as rogue wicks. They wouldn't wanna be any smaller, otherwise, it'd be part of the pattern. That's why I've included this to show what the absolute limit is.

Obviously, if they're a lot longer than the example the previous example, then you know they're rogue wicks. But if they're this sort of size, they're just on the limit on the borderline of being rogue wicks, and you can disregard them. But that's it. So hopefully that gives you a pretty good eye to better see, you know, what I class as a rogue wick. So it's incorrect if you put your your stop loss behind them there.

You need to bring it up a little bit, which then allows us to have a lot better chance of going to target. So the next one, tweezer candles. This is a similar sort of setup, same sort of thing. These are 2 long wick candles. You know what a tweezer candle is now from doing the course.

Now the wicks of these candles can be disregarded and the stop loss can be set using the bodies of the candle. You almost treat them as a a single rogue wick. They are very powerful reversal patterns in themselves. So this I'm not saying that this is a good setup, but it's not. You've got this rundown in price and obviously a a w bottom.

And we have a rogue wick sticking down, just one crazy wick on its own, and then a beautiful tweezer bottom that's there. And so if we stuck our stop loss right below them there then okay fair enough very very safe no need to do that. You can actually put your stop loss right up there. Not an issue that's the correct place for it. You can ignore these.

These are powerful reversal patterns in themselves and that's why we can ignore them there because if price comes back through there then we've got a real problem. So we're gonna be out the trade anyway. Now a single wick that forms on the side of a m or a w. Now usually the two sides of an m or w have multiple candles and significant bodies. However, there are occasions when most of one side can consists of a solitary wick.

In this scenario, we have to look at the bodies to see if we can still see them form an obvious, albeit, shallow m or w. So let's have a little look at this. So here we have a single wick forming most of the right side of this pattern. But we do have bodies that are moving down. Small bodies but they are moving down and we do have a reasonably clear middle part where we've got this v inverted v shape here that's happening.

So that is valid. That's okay. That's acceptable. However here, we have a similar situation where we've got a single wick form in one side of the pattern, but the bodies are doing very very different things. The bodies here are just horizontal.

They're just going sideways. We don't see a significant v shape or an in a little an inverted v shape in the bodies. It's not like this here. So therefore, this is invalid. We have to see a significant or a noticeable move like this where we got this arrow or inverted v shape on the w bottom, and it would be a v shape on an M top of the bodies when we've got a single wick.

So you can use them but you see with this here the bodies here would not class on their own as being a valid setup because it would not fit the 1.3 extension rule that we have. So, that would not be valid. We'd need the WIC to make it valid. And in this case, we're okay to use it, but you wouldn't be on this one. Right.

They're the steps. They're all the different things. They're all the ones. So make sure you really go through this in detail and and get them stuck in your brain, and then you can practice them and look for them and observe them in the charts and, you know, really, really learn from them. So the bigger picture, so a little look, take a little step back for a moment.

The last module completes the, you know, in the this is the last module and it completes the teachings of the m and w reversals method. You've got everything you need. You know, you've got all the information you need to successfully trade the strategy. However, it does not mean that you will be successful. You need to practice all the elements, you know, and revisit the modules to ensure you can quickly recognize the patterns as they form and be in no doubt about what they what you need to do regardless of what price does.

You know what you do at each situation, whatever price does. You've planned it all. There are set rules. It takes time. You know?

Truly master it. It will take you time. Any trading method. Psychology plays a huge part of mastering your remote, you know, of of mastering trading. Your emotions play an enormous part in it.

Probably as much as the method itself, controlling emotions is key. But once you do, sky's the limit, and you'll be in control of your financial future. There's no issue. Of course, it will have its challenges. You know, this this last part, there's some quite technical stuff in here and stuff to to experience as well as learn.

So it will have you know, you might be overloaded. You might be overwhelmed. You might be confused, you'll have difficulty identifying the the problem sometimes. And you'll forget to actually look for hopefully not news particularly, but you'll forget to look for maybe weekly trend lines. You might get caught out just because you forget.

Of course you will. And you might feel that some of the steps are unnecessary, they're not unnecessary. What can you do to overcome? So if you're feeling over overload and overwhelmed, go back over the course content and take it one step at a time. Only move on when it's fully ingrained, you know, that's key.

Just take but make it bite sized. Don't try and take too much in at once. If you're confused, revisit the information. If you're still unsure, send in a question. You know, we'll address it in the next live session.

If you're having difficulty, you know, identification issues, it's it's normal to struggle, you know, to differentiate between strong and weak levels of support and resistance. Of course it is. Don't be in too big a rush, you know, you need to spend time analyzing the charts and applying your knowledge to really get a firm grasp of this concept. If you forget to apply one of these nuances, again, it will happen from time to time. You might forget to look for weekly trend lines or economic news releases.

The best way to overcome it is to have a detailed checklist that you use use each time. It means you don't miss anything. And if you do feel that anything's unnecessary, maybe you'll you'll feel that you have enough information already and you do not need these additional elements. Well, that's wrong. These elements will take your understanding and ultimately your trade in to a whole new level, particularly, obviously, of the m and w reversal method.

So how can you build consistency over the long term with this? For practice. Like anything else, these advanced elements need to be practiced and experienced in order to be able to successfully apply them. I still practice every week. I always strive to be better.

And as I say, I'm still improving as a trader and I want to continue that forever. Well, not forever but certainly for as long as I trade. In the early stages it took me quite a while to go through these elements but now it seems natural. It's quite a quick process so don't be overwhelmed it will come. It will come to you.

Check for the news. Check for trend lines. Support and resistance levels. Practice them. Look for divergence and practice observing and see what happens to price after it does it.

Optimize your risk reward. See what happens. You know, go back and prove it to yourself almost that one to one is a darn good idea. It's not all about making threes and fours to ones. Of course, it's not.

It's about making money. And if this is the optimal way of doing it, do it. Understand the role that Wix play and, you know, and or or don't. You know, when do we include them or when when we don't? And manage a trade when necessary.

This is huge. It means you can get into more trades and know that you're protecting your capital anyway because you're managing it and you're knowing how to do it and you're following the rules. So basic stages of pro progress as ever if you're a beginner at this, you know, overwhelmed, confused, not able to apply the concepts, you know, forgetting to check the news, you know, not understanding when a wiki is relevant and when it's not, all normal things to be at. Don't don't so don't worry. But as you progress, you'll mostly remember to check the news.

You'll be able to assess roadblocks. But you might still struggle with some elements such as divergence or, or managing a trade, for instance. But as you become advanced, the more you do it, you'll gradually become advanced, and you'll have a full grasp of all the nuances and be able to apply the knowledge every time you'll check the news, roadblocks, and divergence, and it almost be second nature to do so. Just automatic. It's just part of the process.

It's it's almost like breathing. That's what you do every time. Know when and how to manage a trade and to execute the rules almost automatically. So let's summarize everything that you've learned. We're there at the end now and we'll just run through it just to say you need to check the economic calendar to see if any imminent news releases could affect your trade.

Plot weekly trend lines and check that these do not slice through between entry and target. Analyze the previous price action to see where levels of significant support and resistance occur and check if divergence is present. Make sure that you're just optimizing your your risk, and understand the roles that Wix play in the process, or don't play. Now time to practice. Go in and do it.

So I've got a little practice project for you to do. Which will just test you a little bit on all these elements and one at a time. So this is the practice project here. I will just run through it briefly. So what to expect?

So practice project divided into 7 parts. All of those done similar with questions. You'll go into it. Economic news. You'll answer the questions.

Okay. Go through. Type your answer. That's fine. Then you'll do weekly trend lines, and it tells you exactly how to do it.

Go into the chart and and do them, and support and resistance, etcetera. So work your way through that, do it, then submit it, and do you can check it. I've I've set all the answers there, so it's self assessment. You can sit you can check your work against what my model answers are, and compare. So you can do a lot of self assessment, and then we can, if you post it in in in the correct area, which that is a special area now, to do so, then you will be able to, to get feedback from fellow students and also give feedback to your fellow students, which would be great.

And I'll even dip in there a few times as well and throw my 2 penneth worth in. So so that's the end of that and good luck I look forward to seeing all of your progress.
