
Okay. So this is module 2 of the m and w reversal strategy. This is where we build on the core knowledge that we learned in the first module. So here's what we're gonna do today. We're gonna go through and determine when and how to set a pending order so that you're not tied to your screen.

It's a good idea to be able to get away from the screen at times. It only causes some problems if you're just staring at it all day long. We're gonna learn when the pattern is or when a pattern is invalidated. There are several reasons for that and I'll go through those so, make sure that you're fully clear on that. What conditions and circumstances require, us to manually close the trade?

Well, there are again a few, areas there that I will run through, and what an inefficient candle is, so an inefficiency in the market and how it may may help us or actually hinder our trade. So I'll explain all about that, and then something is extremely important is how to assess previous price action to find the highest probability trades. So why should you learn it? Well, when I first started, trading m's and w's, I didn't fully understand how to maximize their potential, nor do I understand when it would be prudent to money to close the trade or to how to assess the patterns. It just you know, it it wasn't something that I knew at the time.

So as I developed, I developed rules. You know, whilst I was reasonably successful, I realized that I could improve my results, you know, by reading the setup in order to understand the most likely outcome. You know, reading the previous price action gave me the best heads up to what is gonna happen in the future. Best leading indicator I know. So over time with experience gained, I, I came up with a set of steps to follow that significantly improve my consistency and ultimately added more to my bottom line, which is obviously key.

Now many years have passed, and I've spent a lot of that time optimizing the strategy and the results of all my analysis and experience trading these patterns are detailed in the remaining module. I strongly urge you to study, learn, and practice the knowledge instilled in this module in order for you to get several steps closer to mastering trading, and w reversals. If you don't learn it, oh, that's up to you, but you'll have difficulty, been able to determine between a high and relatively low probability setup. You're trading being consistent. You'll become frustrated which leads to poor decision making, and you'll be confused not understanding why one part pattern plays out beautifully and another go straight to stop loss.

And ultimately you'll be leaving profits on the table, you know, as as opposed to maximizing your profits if you do fully take on board these concepts. So imagine for a moment what it'd be like when you can easily differentiate between average and high probability patterns, be fully comfortable analyzing, previous price action in order to maximize the potential of each setup, be confident that you can enter a trade at the optimum level without the need to be constantly in front of the screen. Know exactly when you should exit a trade every time so there are no emotion, emotional or random closing of trades early or late. You know, know how good would that be? It's pretty cool.

So keywords that you're gonna need to know are inefficient candle. This is a this refers to a candlestick that represents an area where the market has yet revisited or balanced out the price action. So, in other words, it it it indicates an imbalance in the imbalance in the market where the price move quickly away from a level, creating a large bull or bear candle, with small wicks, and then the imbalance suggests that the market might return to this area and act like a bit of a magnet to pull your trade towards it. So we'll go through that. We'll go through exactly what a, a an inefficient candle is and, and how to actually trade trade it.

But, you know, a candle that is inefficient is is is deemed to be squared up when, when 50% of the range of that candle has been revisited in future price action. There is one caveat to that. It can be the one candle before the inefficient candle that can square it up if it has come down to 50% or got up to 50% of the range of that candle, but normally it is subsequent candles that go up to square up that candle. So a pending order, a pending order is an instruction given to a broker to buy or sell a security at a specified price in the future. Unlike market orders which are executed immediately at the current market price, pending orders are only triggered when the price reaches the predetermined level common types of pending orders, include buy limit, sell limit, buy stop, and sell stop orders will be more focused on the buy stop and sell stop And alert.

An alert is this is an audible signal that informs you of when prices reached a certain price level. Very useful. Asset invalidation pattern invalidation occurs when price action moves in a way that contradicts the expected outcome of a chart pattern this means that the criteria or condition defining the pattern are no longer met You know, this signals that the anticipated move is unlikely to occur or is less probable, less likely to occur. And then roadblock, this is a price level that price may well have difficulty getting through. These can be support and resistance levels, weekly trend lines, or square up levels of inefficient candles.

So here are the tools you're gonna need. You're gonna need some to do this. You need charting software. Now I use and recommend trading view. I'm used to that, but there are other good ones as well, if you're comfortable using those, and that's fine.

And you're gonna need a broker demo account. This is purely to practice practice set in pending orders. It isn't trade at this time. We're still learning the the system. We cannot start, back testing even fully, before we know all the nuances and understand that the system inside and out.

So the demo account is just so that you can get practice before you need to use it for setting pending orders. So what are the steps? We need to actually go forward and there are a series of steps to get, to to go through. So one of these will go through how to enter a trade when a pattern is invalidated, when to exit a trade manually, how to maximize profits, and to assess the quality of the pattern. We'll go over each of these steps and then we'll go ahead and practice it or you can practice it for yourself, so let's dive in.

So entering the trade, so this is obviously, we need to at some time enter a trade to take advantage of the price action that's presented to us. The only way we can put put profit from it is by entering a trade and then subsequently closing it for a profit. So we'll go through, first of all, pending order entry. Now don't worry. These are a lot of steps that I'm gonna talk through now.

I will run through it in detail, in in give you a clear example of it and show you all the steps, rather than just having it written down. So the first thing you do is you go to the broker. You go to broker charts and just, check that the charts show the bid price of the instrument that you're gonna be trading. Now most do. It's very unusual to show anything but the bid price on charts.

Occasionally, you'll get them showing the mid price or very, very occasionally asked price, but it is almost always the bid price. But you need to know and be certain that that's the case and if you if you don't know how to do that the simplest way is to ask your broker what the charts show that's the first thing you need to do and then you determine the neckline price level so what is the price level of the neckline so then the second bit is for w's you add 0.5 pips to this neckline plus the broker spread to that level. So if your broker spread is 2 and a half pips, you'll add 2 and a half plus the half pip and so you you add 3 pips to the neckline and that is your entry, but we'll go through it in detail. And then you measure the distance from that new level that you've written in to, the to to the stop loss. So how far how far away is the stop loss from that level?

So using a position size calculator, you'll determine the trade volume by using the stop loss distance from step 2, and you will input the risk that you're comfortable taking. So I usually take 1% risk on most trades that I take, sometimes half a percent, sometimes as up to a maximum of 2%. You will determine what that is, and at the start, you might well be risking a a smaller amount than that just until you get really up and running with it and, and prove to yourself that you can do it. Now to actually set a pending order, you need to open your your broker's trade order window, and I'll show you how to do that. This will be different for different types of platforms.

So I am gonna show you how to do it with m t 4, which is a very common platform across the world and is probably the most used to trade, so I'll use that. But obviously I can't show everyone because we'll be here all night. But when you go into that so you open the the trade order window and you will select a buy stop order for a w or a sell stop order for an m and then you'll input your trade volume, your predetermined entry level, your stop loss, and you take profit levels, and you will hit set or enter whatever it is, and that will then set your pending order in place. You'll double check it and make sure it's in the right place, and once it is then you are set and you can leave and do whatever you like, do some research or whatever, you've done the work required, and I'll walk you through that. Now don't forget to close the pending order if the pattern is invalidated or or if it's or you come up to a news event, maybe the pattern's been around for a while.

It's, it's lasted longer than you thought it might do. It hasn't triggered. It hasn't opened, but news is now on the on the doorstep. It's only a short distance away. You haven't got time to get into the trade and ask the trade with a profit before news hits.

So you cancel that pound depending order and you move on to the next, next setup. You know, you might wanna cancel if if a weekend's coming up, you know, or whatever. Depending on what time frame you're on, you know, you'd make the decision about when you should close it or or not have it open, but it's pretty straightforward. So now then the second way of opening a trade is not by a pending order. This is not by you setting it and disappearing or doing something else and letting it happen for you.

It's actually you physically opening it when the neckline is broken, and so we will go through that and how the best way is to do it and the way is you obviously open the chart that you're going to trade you click on an alert button and set an audible alert at the price level a few pips short of the neckline. So you want to be given a little bit of of of heads up about when price is coming up to the neckline, so you set the alert just before price reaches the neckline so that then you can go into the chart and have a look. Now you check when you do come back, you hear the alert, you go in, and you check that the pattern pattern is still valid. You know? Is it are there any new economic news events coming up that you haven't seen before, or has price gone sideways for a long time and, you know, there might might, you know, might be time for news to hit.

What time of day is it? Is it going to go into spread out or whatever it is? But just make sure that it's still valid and you're still happy to take that trade. And then if you are, you go into into the into your, brokers trade window, but you need to know what your risk is. Again, you you set your risk.

You know, 1% is fine for me. But you might set an 0.1 for a start. And you, you know, find out what the trade volume is through using a position size calculator, and then put all that information into a market order, which is your broker's order window that will have gone through in, in very similar way to set pending or is a little bit more straightforward you're setting a market order which means you're just entering at that at the point on the market and you just set your stop loss and your take profit and your volume of course that you trade in. So let's walk you through that what that actually looks like. Okay so let's have a look now at this in action, first we'll set a pending order and then we'll go through how to set an alert and do a market order.

The pending order first, we'll be looking at this chart here, the Aussie dollar Japanese yen on the 4 hour, looks like a w bottom, so price comes down, bounce back up, pushes down lower. We're interested in this. Let's say we've done our due diligence and we're happy with the previous price action. I'm not saying we are, but it, let's say we all, are happy with that and we are happy, that there are no news events coming up and no potential roadblocks in the way or if there are, we know what we're gonna do around them. So we're ready to, enter into a pending order.

How do we do that? Well, first of all, we need to know some levels. We need to know where the stop loss is. We need to know where the entry level is, and we need to know where the take profit is so we can set the pending order. A pending order will allow us to set and forget effectively.

We can walk away and it will trigger if the trade if if price gets back up to the level we wanted to do because we're hoping now that price reverses here, goes up, breaks through the neckline, and we want to take advantage of buying the market at that level good because we believe it is gonna go higher if it breaks this level. And that's the whole premise of the, strategy and for and the reason for searching the pending order. So we set a we need to know where the neckline is which is here. So we set that. That's our neckline level.

We then need to know because it's a w, we have to follow the rules. So we're half a pip above that is where we want to have our entry plus the broker spread. And I'll explain why in a second that we do that, but so naught, 0.5 plus the broker spread. What is the broker spread? It is so this is a demo account.

Just having a little look. Aussie Dollar Japanese yen here. We go across. I've high I've set a, a column here, which you can go into and customize. You'd tick this column here.

Take it out, then it doesn't show it. But if you want to show the spread, then add that column in, and it gives us what the spread of that instrument is and all the other instruments as well working down. So we're interested in the Aussie dollar Japanese yen, so we go across the last column, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, somewhere around between 1.1 and and 1.5. So if we say that we're happy to we'll take the top end of that. We always want to be using the top end of of the figures that it's it's sort of working its way between.

We have floating spreads. They won't stay exactly the same, all the time. It depends on the liquidity of the market. But at the minute, this is what what spreads are. It might go up a fraction so therefore we give it a little bit of room.

So we say 1.5 is is the figure we're gonna use. We add that to our naught 0.5, which means that 2 2 pips is what we want to raise this, entry level up by. So we're at 107 8.827. So I wanna go to 107.847. So let's zoom in.

107.847. There we go. That's the level that we want to enter at and the re why do we do that? Well, because we have 2, prices. One is the ask price and one is the bid price.

The difference between the 2 is the broker spread. Now when we're buying the market, we buy at the ask price, which is always higher than the bid. So we're buying at the ask price and when we sell, we sell at the bid price. And let me show you that on the actual broker window. Excuse me.

It's a one minute chart, so it's moving about all over the place. But the candles print by and large are mostly, most, brokerages with their charts will print candles based on the bid price. And trading view does, broker, as I say, charts tend to do that. They use the, the bid price. I've included as well in this by clicking on prop this is an empty 4 platform.

So, obviously, if you don't use empty 4, then it will be different on yours, but I can't go through all the different platforms because there are many. But this is just gives you an idea about how to do it on mt 4 and you should better work it out from this. It's the same sort of procedure whatever platform you use. So in this case, I've included to show the ask line as well here, ticked that. If you take that off and click okay, then this line would disappear, but, I'll keep it on.

Okay. So this is the bid price where the candle is at the minute because that's what we're printing at, and this line is the ask price. The difference between the two levels, is the broker spread. We always buy at the ask and we sell at the bid, and the bid in between is the broker's profit. So that's why we need to raise up the neckline by the, amount of the broker spread and that little bit extra just to make sure we have actually broken the neckline.

So we take it up by 2 pips, because the ass line will come up and it will if if we had our entry right on the neckline here and we've actually set our pending order to enter at that level, we'll be buying at the ass line and so the ass would come up, price. And when it hits that level, we'll trigger us into a trade. But the candle would be showing the bid price, and it wouldn't actually have broken the neckline. So we'd have been premature in our entry, and it could easily reverse and go down, and we wouldn't have actually broken the neckline and we're being the trade falsely. We're not following the rules.

So we have to be in at the correct level, which is means we use the, we know that the it's we're buying, so the ash line is the one that we will be, triggering by. So we have to raise it up by that amount by 2 pips in this case. So when the ash line hits this level, it means that the bid price will have actually cleared above the neckline by half a pip. And so that is a true genuine trade then. So I know it's tricky to follow some of this.

You might need to listen to this a couple of times and to get your head around it. It took me a while, but but it is very important. Otherwise, you can be triggered into a trade at the wrong price, and that is not what we want. We need to be consistent with it. So we're in, into this, trade sorry.

We've we've we've we know where our entry is, what the level is, a 107.847. Make a note of it. That's what we need to write down. So so entry is a 107.847 because we need to transfer this to our pending order. If we have a an m top, for instance, then the assuming this is it here, the neckline is, at this level.

We only have to set, because we're selling, we're selling at the bid price and so the bid price, we can just set it half a pip below what the candle show us because the check candles show us the bid price, and we'll actually be entering a trade on the bid price because we're selling at that level. So therefore, half a pip's enough for us to get into that. It doesn't need to have the broker spread included with it. So different rules for whether it's an m or a w, and it's different also for take profits and stop losses on these as well. So we do need to you need to know these.

You have to add the broker spread to the entry on a w. You do not add add the broker spread to the entry on an m. Okay. So now we need to set where our stop loss is. So I'll just get rid of this and and so the stop loss on this pattern here, these 2 wicks here, we can ignore.

2 rogue wicks, 1 on either side is acceptable to ignore those. No need to have these taken into account. They're not part of the pattern. So we take the the level from this one here. So the stop loss is because it's a w.

It is a, it's one pip below this level here. So we are at that level. That is our stop loss. If it was the m, then we would add one pip above the m and, plus the broker spread. Because when we're closing out an m, an m would be would be selling, and when, price comes back up and if it's our stop loss, we'll be buying that position back so we will buy at the ask price which means that's higher than the bid so we have to have the stop loss higher and, up which means we take, one pip plus the broker spread to ensure that then that means that the, price is actually broken above the pattern.

So the bid price is broken above the pattern. The ask price is higher than that and that's the level that we have to set the stop loss at because that's what we would close it out. So the next thing we do is, measure the difference between these two levels here. So we got 106975 and 10784 7. You can use a calculator for it.

It is, 87.2pips. So 87.2pips. We make a note of this level, so stop losses at 10697.5, 87.2 pips. We can now measure up from the neckline, 87.2 pips, and this will give us our apologies. That'd be okay for for this.

But 87.2 pips there, this would be where our take profit level is. Make sure we're accurate on that, and that is our take profit level. Okay. Make a note of that figure. 10874.

I know it's very slightly out, but you can, take your time to do it exactly right on this. And now, so that these are the all the figures we need to actually put into our pending order. That's our take profit level. This is our entry level, and this is our stop loss level. So the next thing we need to know is what, what size of volume do we need?

What size of trade will we actually trade? In order to determine the, the lot size for the trade we're going to take, we need to use a position size calculator. There are many free ones available, and most of them are as good as each other. I just tend to use my FXBook, their free version, which is here. Just navigate to my FX book and put in position size calculator and that will come up.

It's a free, yeah, calculator that, that is perfect adequate for the use. It's a little bit clunky, but I've used it for years and it is, and it hasn't really let me down. So, this is it here. I've got several boxes boxes to fill out. We know the information from this, from the work we've done before, so let's go straight to it.

So currency pair, it is the Aussie dollar, Japanese yen pair. The currency, the account currency, well, I'm, my account is in great British pounds. But whatever your account is denominated in, then you set that to be, the, the currency. On this, so if you're in the United States, the chances are it will be United States dollar, in Europe, probably euros. But I'm in the UK, and I've got a great British pound account here.

So, account size, we need to set what our account size is, and it could be whatever it is, whatever your trading account, capital is in there. It could an odd number. It could be 16,250. You put that in. It could be a 100,000, whatever it is.

In this case, it is 10,000. Okay. Now this next section is the risk, risk ratio. I generally use 1% as my, go to default setting for, risk. So it's important to be consistent with this so you do not over leverage yourself.

1% is usual. 2% is the absolute maximum I'll take on any one position, and then all of the ducks have to align to do that. I do go down to very often to no point 5 or even lower sometimes depending on the situation. But we'll set it at 1, so 1% risk in this case. If you're not comfortable doing that and you just want to get your head around what the actual thing means in in money, you can swap to money by clicking that bit there, swap with money, swap with risk.

So, you can put in the amount of money you're prepared to lose on a trade. So let's say you're prepared to lose a £125 on this trade, and then you put that in into that case there. And then you then do you stop loss, when when hit would only, you know, you'd only lose £125, but I normally do it by, risk, and 1% is the amount that I normally use. The stop loss in pips, we know what that is. It's 87.2.

We'll run that down to 87. You can put the exact figure in but 87 fine. The trade size here, in lots, well, it's a bit confusing that, but what it means is how many trades are you physically wanting to take for this amount of risk. And in this case, we'd only be taking one trade. If you wanted to split it into multiple, trade entries, then you might have a risk of naught 0.25 and have 4 different entries.

You'd have 4 on this. But, in this case, you sorry. If you wanted to have 4, entries for this, then it will give you the lot size for no point 5 percent risk for each one because 1 divided by 4 will be no point 25. But we're just doing 1, and normally, you just take one trade and, you know, one position. And so that would be almost always just 1.

Once you've got this information in, just double check it, make sure it is correct, and then click calculate. And what that does is tell you, right, I'm risking £100 if it hits stop loss, and this is the amount of size that I am going to take on the trade, no point 24 lots. That is the amount that would mean that if my stop loss is hit, then it will cost me a £100. So fairly straightforward. You can whiz through that very quickly.

And, yeah. And it it just just a very straightforward way of of working out your lot size. So we need to go to the broker Now to actually input this information, all the information that we've got, we now need to set our pending order. And how we do that is go to our broker. So this is a demo account here for, what who it is, but it's an empty 4 demo account.

You might well have an entirely different, platform, and you need to get your head around how that works. I can't go through all of them obviously because there are many, and MT 4 is very popular platform which hopefully, that that all of all the platforms have similarities, and by and large, you need just to follow, this a similar process for all of them. In this case, we're looking at this Aussie dollar Japanese yen, setup. I know price has moved on from what we looked at before and actually would have invalidated the trade, but this is for demonstration purposes and it just to allow to show you how to actually set a pending order. So imagine that we're still around this area at this time, and we're thinking that we want to take advantage of price breaks above this neckline.

So the setup is still valid at this time and we'll be setting a pending order. Why we do it? There's a couple of ways of doing that is, we use the market watch here, which has got a list of all the currencies and instruments that you can trade. We navigate to the Aussie dollar Japanese yen, which is here, and we can double click on that. If you double click, then it will bring up a market order window.

So this is it here. You can also do it by right clicking on anywhere on the chart here. Right click. Go down to trading across to new order and exactly the same window pops up. Now we're setting a pending order.

So there's a few parameters we need to put in here. The first one is to actually change it from market execution to pending order. So there's a drop down menu. Click pending order. What type of order do we want?

Well, it's, we're gonna be buying the market if price goes through the neckline upwards. So we want to buy order. What is it? A buy limit or a buy stop. Well, the way you know you need to know this is that all all of your orders for, a w will be a buy stop order and all of your orders for an m will be a buy sorry, a sell stop order.

So all of them are stop orders. The reason being is if you if you if we have this, I know it can be a little bit confusing with stops and limits and whatever. What do they mean? But, a stop order is where price is below where you want to enter into the market. So price has to move up to reach your level and then enter into it.

If you'd if if you do that, it's a buy stop order. If you want to enter, at a level that is below where current prices at the minute, but you want to buy that level, then it you use a buy limit order. But because we are always using a, a situation where here, we're looking at this area. So price is always gonna be above us in a w here, then we'd always use a buy stop order. And in an m situation, we'd always use a sell stop order.

So go back in. So pending order. Another drop down menu here. We need a buy stop. So buy stop order and it, and we need to set the volume.

Now if we got the volume from the previous, work we did on the position size calculator, so that is, naught point 24. Double check that because it's important to get that right. As it is, you know, that could be very costly if you get that one wrong. And then we need to set the parameter for where we're gonna enter the market. So at what price?

So this is a buy stop order, a pending order, buy stop order. At what price do you want to enter the market? Well, it's that price that is the entry that we've set just above the neckline which is if you click on one of these arrows here, it populates the the current price and so then you can go in and amend that to the level that you want it to be. So 107.847. That's the price I want to enter the market at and then we need to put a stop loss in.

So again, click on one of those current price, go down to whatever our level is now. And our price is currently below where our stop loss would be. If you remember, obviously, our stop loss is here. And if you imagine with with the trade will be triggered, it'll be up here so our stock would be relevant below current price. But now things have moved on, so in fact, our stop loss is well, sorry.

The price is well below where our stop loss would be. But for the purpose of this demonstration, I would normally put in, obviously, what the the stop loss level would be, which is 1069.975. I will put it in, well, I shall I will do that because it's still relevant in this case. So 106.975. Okay.

So that's the correct stop loss. Take profit is it's 108.719. Okay. Double check all these. Make sure we've got everything correct.

This here, this expiry is quite a useful, little window. We can set a an expiry date and time for this pending order. So it will close itself down and switch itself off after it reaches this date or time, double date and time, which is useful if you want to just make sure the pending order doesn't just stay on forever, then you can, until you till you close it, that is, manually, then you can set an expiry date on it and, very useful. So before spread hour or before the weekend or whatever, you can set that to to go off. So if you forget to close it manually, it will expire and won't trigger you into a trade when you don't want it to happen.

So that can be done. Just click on this box and then you can set whatever time and date you want to be. As it is, I'm happy enough. I normally leave it blank because I'm comfortable at closing off pending orders when I want to do it rather than leaving it to do it, automatically. So once this is all done, you can press place and then bang.

It actually sets the buy stop order which is here at the correct volume, no point 24 lots here. So that if price comes up or if it had to come up and hit that level, you'd be in the trade with a stop loss down here and you take profit up here. So, you could double check these. Obviously, once it goes into your chart, you can see, you haven't entered into a trade. You just purely are set in a pending order to enter the trade if price comes up to this level.

So double check it again, make sure it's the right volume, make sure you do take profit and stop losses the correct level and away you go. So, yeah, hopefully that makes sense and the same process is what's exactly the same process for for an m. You just set a sell stop order, and again, just set the the stop loss of the parameters that you've, or the level that you've determined. The volume is calculated from the position side. You're doing exactly the same way, and, and then you you you set the pending order up.

So pretty straightforward. It it looks a little laborious. It it isn't as as long as it's taken me to do there. It's very quick, and when you get used to doing it, you just need a bit of practice, and that's why, practicing this on a demo account is really important for a long time. Do it for a long, long time before you actually move to a live account.

Obviously, you won't be doing either of those yet. You won't be trading on a demo or a live account, obviously, until you fully offay with, the the strategy rules and you are fully offay with the back testing that you'll need to do to enforce the fact that you know what you're doing, with it. And then you move into forward testing, which is quite a way down the line, with with a demo account, but then you but you could do nothing to stop your practice in setting pending orders at any time when you've got a bit of free time. You can do that. So you got used to doing that.

So when you do move to a demo account and actually start forward testing, then you are, ahead of the game a little bit. So you're you're quicker at setting this. There is a there is a shortcut for an advanced way of of going about this, which is, if you want to delete this order, then you can just delete it by clicking here or it shows in the, apologies, or it shows in the, the trade window down here which what the buy stop order is and you just click the x here and that takes it off. Now you can set another, another way of setting, this on a when you get more advanced and get used to this is to, trading new order. We've got the volume.

We've got the correct volume. We want to have a buy stop order. So exactly the same process here. I you just move, at what price? Well, just just set a price that's above current price.

It doesn't matter what it is at the minute, just set slightly above. Stop loss, you go down below what current prices at the minute and just leave it and then take profit you go above what your entry level is which is a 105, 6, 7, 5, and long as you've above that, then it's okay. Now these figures aren't on the right figures, but just bear with me. You click pray, place, even, and there it is. The market the the order's there above price, but it's in the wrong place.

We need it up here. So we click, we we drag this, so we hover our mouse over it, click, and then drag up until we get to the level we wanted to be at and you can check with the, at the side here whether you got the correct level and and then the stop loss is here so you just, again, grab it, pull it down to the level you want it to be at, and then they take profit which is this top line, drag it to the level you want to have the correct level, and then you're all done again and the pending order is set. You can see it down here, check the parameters of it, adjust it if necessary, but it's all set there for you to do so a little bit quicker way of doing it, but the other way is the most accurate first time if you know what I mean, and this is more for more advanced traders. So so that's it for pending orders. Hopefully, that made sense.

I will now look at what we do for for, for setting alerts. So setting a, an alert is the second method and then, you will enter by a market order. I'll show you how to do that now. So we're in trading view again here. Now this, I'm I'm in replay mode at the minute, so I need to come out of that because alerts don't work on replay mode for probably obviously obvious reasons.

Do you wanna exit that? Yep. Absolutely. So this is the same position as we're in with the broke. Obviously, price has moved on from, this potential w setup, which has now been invalidated, which you will, know about, how to do that in a bit later in this module and why it's been invalidated.

But, anyway, we need to set an alert. And the alert will tell us if price comes up. So at this sort of level here, if price comes up and challenges somewhere near to the neckline to just before the neckline, it it will sound and tell us that we, the price has actually reached that level, and so we need to then go and have a look. A great way of actually just, you can be getting on with doing other things, you can be doing analysis somewhere else, or, whatever it is you're doing, but, when price reaches that level, you'll get an audible ding or or musical chart, you know, you can select what it is. There are, you know, a a few choices of sounds and, and and then you know that you need to be paying attention and have a look.

And you'll get a window here that that that pings up and tells you what it is that has triggered. It will say prices moved up through the level of x, y, zed on the Aussie dollar, Japanese yen. And so you know which chart to go to straight away, and then you do an assessment to see if the the setup is still valid and you still want to enter the trade if it does then push above the neckline. So we set the alert a little bit below the neckline, so down here somewhere at this sort of level. So that when price gets up there, it gives us a heads up that we're getting close to triggering the trade.

So let's have a look at it and make sure we wanna get in there, and then we can we can be watching, from there on in and triggering into the trade if manually this is if it goes through the level that we wanted to do so. So the way we do it is clearly, there's an alert on trading view here. You click on that alert. Now we're, because we're on the Aussie dollar Japanese yen, it will prepopulate with the Aussie dollar Japanese yen, which is fine, but just double check that. You want, there's lots of choices here, what you want to do.

You just want to know when the price is crossing a certain level. Now I tend to use crossing up when I'm looking, at a w or crossing down when I'm looking at an m because prices actually physically got to cross up through that level to trigger it, but you can just leave it on just crossing. It doesn't matter. Would just you'll get a few more alerts. That's all.

But at the right level, so don't worry about that. But I say, yeah, crossing up, going into that level. The next bit is, what level do we want it to be given us alert at? This is this area here, and so we need to set that. And so if if our neckline is a 106.9 sorry.

If our, if our if our entry is, a 107.847 as it is, then we can set it a little bit below that. So 108, 100 and sorry. 107, 0.800. We can set that. It don't it doesn't matter too much because we'll adjust it manually in a second.

I'll show you how to do that. But so we've got it set somewhere near where our neckline is. If you want, the alarm, it will default to only once, which means the alarm will only sound once. So if you do miss it, then you won't hear it again. I'd set it to every time.

So every time the, the price comes up to this, area and goes through it, then I will get, an alarm that tells me. So if I do miss the first one, it often does it again and again, and so I will hear the the second or third one. And then there's nothing else to put in. So you just put those that parameter in and create, and that creates our alert at this level, which is actually pretty much bang on where we want it to be. If we've got it set too low or whatever down here because that's too early, we don't wanna be watching the market with if price just goes through this level.

We want to do it when we're up here, but we can manually move it just by just clicking on it and dragging it to where you want it to be. So that's it. That's just below the neckline there. If you hover over it, it says Aussie dollar Japanese yen crossing up at this level. And when price goes through it, you will get an alert, which then tells you to have a look, which, you do a a reassessment of the pattern, make sure you're happy with it, and it's at the right time of day.

You've not missed anything like news coming up or, or it's going to spread out or whatever, and then you go to your brokerage. And so in this case, we'll get rid of this pending order because this wouldn't be in place, obviously, and we'll be setting a market order. And the way we do that is exactly the same way. Double click on the Aussie dollar Japanese yen. We've already got the right volume in because we've set before, but, obviously, you'd set the volume to make sure that that is, how you want it to be because you you derive that from the position size calculator.

In this case, we will be using the market executions. We want to go straight into the market. When it breaks the neckline and triggers our level when we want to enter that trade. We put our stop loss in, and so we put that level in at 106 0.975. We don't have an entry level to set because we're not setting a pending order, but we need to make sure our stop loss is in there, and our take profit is 108 point 719.

Okay. So that is all you do. That is it. That's ready to go. So that now if we click buy, we'll enter into the trade and no stop losses will be set.

Now this won't work because this stop loss is actually above where prices at the minute, and so, that wouldn't, if we're buying the market, that wouldn't be acceptable. But, of course, we would be doing this when price moved up to this level here and stop loss would be below price. So, I can't actually enter that to show you what it looks like on the screen, but it will look exactly the same as it did for the pending order except for the fact you'll be actually physically in the trade. So, I couldn't I can just take this actually down to let's take this down to so I've moved the stop loss well well down, and I'll click buy by market and bang, we're in. We're in that level.

So whatever your market, wherever wherever price is at that time, bang, you're in it. And so that's why you wait until the the neckline's broken. You've reached the level that you, well, you know, it's half a pip above the neckline according to the candle. You enter the trade. Bang.

You're in it. Double check once you've done that. Once it's in there, make sure you take profit level is right and more importantly, your stop loss, which is here. Make sure that's right, and, obviously, it's not in this case because of recent I mentioned before, and that's it. So really straightforward really straightforward on that one, and it's a it's a way I often do enter the market because I'm in front of the screens a lot.

I do like to set alerts and then enter, manually. That's fine. I can do that, but not everybody can, and so pending orders are also extremely useful. Hopefully, that makes sense, and I will, we'll move on to the next step. Okay.

So what invalidates the pattern? It's essential to know when a, a pattern bit has become invalidated and is no longer like to work, you know, it allows us to move focus to, to new potential setups. So how do we do it? Let's look at the factors that can possibly invalidate, your setups. So if price breaks above the top of an m or below the bottom of a w, wait for the candle to close and then grab your fib retracement tool if it's not obvious that it's it's it's breached it by a long way, let's say, you know, but let let's say it's only breached it for a by a short distance.

You grab your Fibonacci retracement tool and check to see if the pattern is too wonky. If it isn't, you stay in it. If if it is or or the pattern's still valid. Sorry. If if it is too wonky, then, you have to go to your broker platform and remove the relevant order.

So in this case here, we've got an m top here that price hasn't broken through the neckline yet. So our sell stop hasn't been activated and then price has gone up. And as soon as the price goes up too far from here and actually makes the pattern wonky and invalidates it, you close the close the pending order or or remove the alert if you're doing it in that method. Same for the, a w price, has formed a w here, buy stop hasn't been triggered yet and price goes lower below the level of, the lows of the, the w and invalidates the pattern. If it does that, just close the pending order.

So what does that look like in reality? Well, we've got this m top here, so pretty clear m top. What happens at price move along, let's just follow it through from here, we're here, across here, and price went sideways a little bit and pushed on a little bit higher, went very high with this spike, we apply the fibonacci retracement tool so attach it to the to this point here drag it down to the neckline the extension here shows where the invalidation point is And at no point on any of these candles does it get invalidated because the body didn't close above it at all until this one. And that's the candle that invalidates the pattern, so that's the time that you'll be closing. We're also getting a lot of candles here.

It wasn't quite 30, but it was getting to the stage where it was getting very close to to having too many candles as well, but that's irrelevant for this. Now that's the first one. Now if we have a situation where, price goes sideways before, just just within the pattern without going above, above the pattern or triggering into the trade at all, so below the neckline in this case. So, price doesn't do anything. It just goes sideways up and down, up and down, up and down.

It does it does it quite a while, then we need to be closing it closing the the trade. So if price moves sideways for an extended period of time, 15 candles is a guide, that's pretty normal for it, without triggering your entry or or invalidating the pattern by going above it in the case of an m, then the pattern is still invalidated, so you'd cancel your pending order. Generally the bigger the pattern the more time so the more candles I am prepared to wait so if this if this was 28 candles wide from here to here well, I won't be actually because that would be wrong. But if it was if it was, if it was 15 candles wide to here, then I might be willing to wait the full 15 candles going sideways and stay in it for that length of time. But if it was only, 6 6 or 7 candles wide from here to here, I might not be prepared to wait the full 15 candles going sideways.

I might look to close the pending order after 10 or 12 candles there. So 15 is the guide, but you can adjust that slightly for smaller patterns. So in this case here the w, the price has gone sideways. It hasn't invalidated it by, going well below the w to making it wonky, and it hasn't triggered into the trade, but it's gone sideways, and it's gone sideways for roughly 15 candles. You close the pending order.

And this is what it looks like. So not the cleanest of patterns but prices come down, bounce back up, push down again. This is where the pattern has formed the right leg of the w and so we start counting from the next candle. This is candle number 1 and that is obviously candle number 15 and so at that time there you would close the trade out now as it happens in this case price did continue up for a while but it could it was just the power of this pattern had really diminished by the time we get to this level so we're just now, really need to come out of the trade. There's no point being in it.

We wanted a nice fast reaction to it and it didn't happen so we come out. So now sometimes we'll actually get triggered into the trade, and this is a more common, scenario, we'll get triggered into a trade and then price will move sideways, and it'll move sideways for 15 bars or more. And in this circumstance used and that so that it's moving sideways hasn't hit our take profit. You close depending sorry. You close the trade out whether you're in profit or loss.

Doesn't matter. Okay. So in this case here, we've got this m top. Price has triggered into the trade, but then it's gone sideways. And if it goes sideways for 15 bars, you close out the trade.

You might be in a loss. You might be in a profit, but you close it out. The one caveat to that is if if price is steadily making movements down towards your target, we're just going down there really slowly but all consistently in pretty much the same direction, then you're okay to stay in a bit longer than 15 bars because it's heading towards your target it's just doing it fairly slowly but mostly in most cases you'd close the trade out same for a w when we break through the neckline here, price goes sideways for 15 bars then we close the trade wherever we are unless it's making really consistent progress towards it then you can leave it to run. You might be within you know 2 or 3 pips of of the of the trade. I'm not saying close it out, you know, if you're 5 pips short of hitting your full profit target because you're heading towards the target quite nicely, so you might stay in for a couple more bars.

So this is what, happens. So we have this m top here and pattern completion levels down there. Price starts to go sideways on that bar, and then the 15th candle is there which you mean that you closed the trade the power of the pattern has diminished by this time and we're just gambling you know 5050 almost it's probably probably a bit nearer to 5545 in your favor still but it's not good enough for us so we allow it to go you know we we close the trade and protect the account that's what it's about okay so the next one. This is step 3. This is when to close it manually, on a news event.

So, you open an economic can it's not always prudent to leave a trade open until it hits your stop loss or take profit. In certain circumstances, obviously, it makes sense to close the trade manually. So, you know, and one of those is if news is impending, you know, we've got some impending news coming out that could affect our trade effectively, and we would be in a gambling situation because news can often whipsaw both ways and and take us out, you know, hit our stop loss, which whatever direction we're in. And so we have to really come out of our trade before that, and that's and so we have to keep an eye on when these news events are. So you open an economic calendar to see if any relevant 3 star events are coming up.

So these are red events that are there. If any of those are coming up that are likely to affect your, your trade, then you need and if they're sort of an hour or 2 ahead, you need to be closing your trade out before that those that news hits. A few minutes before is okay. That's that's fine. You can you know, but but it might be just prudent to keep your eye on it for the last hour or so and close it when you feel like it's actually at a sensible level to close.

But long as you close it before the news hits, then you're okay on that. You know, it's difficult to know, sometimes which events, affect your trade. There will be some 2 star events that can affect certainly news out of the US. Sometimes there's 1 or 2 2 star events, so sort of amber events that, that that these data releases can affect your trade as well quite strongly, so you need to know about those as well. This isn't just 3 stars, but 3 stars are the obvious ones that shout out at you.

If it's a if it's a euro, CPI figure, for instance, then, then you know that if you're in anything to do with the euro trade wise, you need to be closing it before that that releases and and likewise an inflation report for, a GB pound. Then if you're in a GBP, you know, a pound pair come out of the trade. US is the biggest one. US dollars affect so many different currencies in it and commodities and indexes that really, if you've got a big 3 star event happening on that, then most most trades will be affected. You might get away with Aussie dollar New Zealand or something like that, but you need to be very much aware that it does affect most trades at that time.

See, close. You know, I rarely keep any 1 hour, 1 hour time frame trades, over the weekend. You know, the the unsettled nature of macroeconomic and geopolitical situations mean that it's prudent to close any open one hour trades, before the weekend. You know? So that's another time that we need to close close a trade.

So the the end of Friday before Friday close, I will shut down virtually all of my 1 hour trades. Very rare will I keep a 1 hour trade open if there's anything open at that time. So it's too risky, too risky, and why would you do it? And, you know, another one is spread hour. You know, you might well choose to close your trade before spread hour.

Now in the UK, it happens at between 10 o'clock and 11 o'clock at night. This is the time when the market gets really thin because it's after the US session is finished, and it's before the Asian one kicks into gear. Volumes are very, very low and spread become incredibly wide. It can be, you know, 20 pips, 30 pips, you know, easily as a spread on there, which is not good to be in. But let's have a look at the news.

So this is a big news day here, non farm payroll day, 1:30 on the US dollar. But let's say we we were up early in the morning, we're still in a trade, the night before of a of a pound a pound trade, and then we have this 3 star bank coming at 7 o'clock in the morning. We'll be looking to to close that out before that hit wherever we are, you know, whether in loss or profit. And this one here, nonfarm payrolls is a huge, huge event that happens once a month. You do not want to be exposed to that in if you're in gold, oil, any US dollar related currency indexes, there'll be wild movement on these.

You've got to be coming out of the trade before that hits. And you don't wanna be taking trades before that happens. You know? You've gotta leave yourself several hours before that for for trades to play out to give you to give them a chance to play out. We gotta close out of those.

So let's talk about spread hour. Let's see how that kicks in because there are a few options here on what you can do around spread hour. So as I said, after New York New York setting session and before the Asian one, then, volatility can be reduced, and we get a huge increase in spreads. Okay. So you can close the trade manually before the spread hour.

Absolutely. That's perfectly valid to do so. Now if if, if you're within 40 pips of, of your stop loss, then I would recommend that you close that trade anyway because spread hour can widen, you know, spreads even 40 pips so you can be in a profit or think you're in a profit spread hour hits and you're actually in a loss and it might even take you out to stop loss you out even though it's going exactly as you wanted to go just because the spread's so wild. So certainly if you were within sort of 40 fit pips or so, of of a stop loss, then, a few minutes before spread out then close the trade out. But if price is 40 pips or more from your stop loss, then you can leave the trade open.

It's your choice. You can stay stay in that because the chances are that the volatility that happens or the the increase in spread, you'll still be protected from it because you're far enough away. So even some, you know, fairly reasonable movements within spread hour won't trigger your stop loss. So that's okay so you can stay with it if you want to do so. You don't have to do.

You can close it. It's up to you. But if you if you're believing that you're in a in a strong trade that you want to stay with, then that's entirely up to you. And very often the 4 hour trade, I will stay in it through spread hour, but as long as my stops are good distance away. So it's a 4 hour time frame.

So now there is an advanced option to this, and when you get skilled with this you can do this next option which is let's say that you were 20 pips away from your stop loss ordinarily that would mean that you should shut the trade down well you can temporarily move your stop loss 40 pips or more away from where price is currently and ride out that spread hour. And so so the chances are with movements of spread hour and the, and the widen of the spread, it still won't get your stop loss, so you're fine. But don't forget, you gotta stay with this. So at the end of spread hour when when when, spread sort of return to semi normal again, you move that stop loss back to where it was originally because you don't want to be double the size of stop loss away or whatever it will be so move it back to very important don't forget to move your stop loss back to its original level really really important on that but that's advanced. This is the most sensible way of doing it here for for a start certainly.

This is for when you really get, you know, very comfortable with trading this method. Okay. So how do we maximise profit? We're talking about how we close trays because of, you know, problems that might happen and whatever like that, let's see how we actually can maximise profit and how we can make a little bit more maybe on these setups than we would do normally. So maximizing the profit potential of each setup, enhances the overall profitability of the strategy.

Of course, it does. My average is 1.2, and it improves the risk to reward ratio. So 1.2 is better than 1 to 1. So, so that's you know, and I do that by, you know, probably 1 in 5 trades I extend the profit target on it. So by fully, you know, maximizing the the opportunity and, you know, ensure that your successful trades generate sufficient returns to offset the losses that you have, you know, and that gives you really good long term growth.

So mostly we aim for 1 to ones, but occasionally we can take it beyond that. And these are defined normally by inefficient candles that we see. So we need to analyze the previous price action. This is absolutely key, and this is something that you need to be doing and become an absolute expert at. Identify any any inefficient candles within that previous price action, And you measure where the 50% range of that candle is, that inefficient candle is, the square up price level, and see where that actually sits within the setup.

If the square up, price level is further, away from the entry than the pattern completion level, you can use this as the take profit target. You can actually squeeze your profit out a bit further so it's, it's likely to get there. You can also do it by actually closing out half your trade or 2 30 trade, whatever it is, when when you reach 1 to 1. So you you go up, you get to 1 to 1 level, normal pattern completion level, you close out half your trade, you let the other half run through to the inefficient candle, that's fine. At least you then know you banked in some profit profits into there.

So you're splitting it into 2 trades, you know, and, and and that is something I do quite quite often. So let's have a look at it. Let's see how this works. So we have, this w bottom here with decent price action coming into it. That's our pattern completion level that's there.

But we've identified an inefficient candle on the rundown in price which is this big candle here. 50% of the range of that candle has not been squared up to, so therefore it is still a market inefficiency and so we might be able to use that to actually squeeze out our profit target. Obviously, we won't know we won't have this price action that's happened by the time that we, you know, enter our take profit levels. We won't have the the the benefit of hindsight, but we'll set a take profit level which might be half of you trade at this take taken off at this level. So you bank half half the profits there, and then you let the other half run up to the square up level on this candle which is there.

So price rapidly went through the neckline, hit pattern completion level in 1 or 2 candles, and then continued up and and eventually hit the square up level. And you see when it hits the square up level, price tends to react to it. This is a a bigger example, so this is an m top this time. We've got an m top that's here. Pattern completion level is there, and we have an inefficient candle well below that pattern completion level.

Now I don't subscribe to put in just one trade on a name in for that inefficient candle because there's all this mess in between here, that consolidation area, but it's certainly, you know, possible for you to put take 2 thirds of the trade off at this level let's say and leave a third of it to run down to the inefficient candle which eventually obviously it did make and then once it's the market has squared up and it's efficient again, then it decides which direction it's gonna go in and it went back up. So that's the positives of an efficient candle. That's really good. Obviously, it's going in our direction. That's brilliant.

And we can maximize profit but there are occasions where they can get in our way this is an m top here again and we can identify an inefficient candle that's there and I'll draw it in across here now. Measure the distance to the to the square up level, which is the yellow line. That's the square up level. It's way before we reach pattern completion and the market price comes down, squares up the market, it's now efficient again and decides it's gonna go back up again, and that happens quite regularly. So you so this would be like a roadblock in the way of of our pattern completion.

You need to be aware of it, and you would treat it as such. And so you'd look for bullish price action that would maybe allow you to close out the trade manually, to protect your capital, which would be tricky on that one, but, you know, that's, that's what you do. So now let's see what we're gonna do. This is step 5 to assess the quality of the setup. Not all m's and w patterns are made equal.

Of course, they're not. By that, I mean that, some have a higher probability of going to target than others, and being able to differentiate between these setups is key to being consistent and, and also your mental well-being. You know, it's very frustrating if you don't understand which ones are more likely to go to target than than not. You'd be thinking, why did that one go and why did that one not? I don't understand, you know, and it screws with your mind and you can lose faith.

So important to be able to differentiate. Some of them have higher probability. So we need to assess the immediate previous price action leading into the m o w, so that's the last run up or down. Does it consist of just one large candle on its own? That's one thing to assess.

If it does, that's not a great thing normally. So if yes, you use the Fibonacci retracement tool to find the 50% level of that, sorry, that, that candle of the range of the single candle, apologies for this typo, and mark this level with a horizontal line just as we did before with that yellow line. If this level is beyond the pattern completion level, then that's okay. You can trade it. That's alright because the well, it's not gonna act as a roadblock.

It might still act as a draw to price to come to to your pattern completion and you take profit level. But if the level is between entry and pattern completion level, then you need to treat this as a potential roadblock. And depending on how close it is to entry, you know, consider bypassing the trade, you know, passing on it. Just just wait for a better setup. If if the square of of that candle is very close to your entry, then that is not a good situation because you haven't got time to react manually to close the trade.

It could easily reverse on you and hit your stop loss before you have a chance to really, assess what's going on. But if the answer is no, so we haven't got 1 candle, we've got more than 1, candle, then that's usually a better scenario. Yeah. So the impulsive move up is is made up of more than 1 candle, that's usually stronger. And if that's the case then you analyze this run up or down, to see if it consists of all of the same color candles or whether there are pauses in the run up or run down, identified by, you know, a different colored candles.

So if you got if you price it moving down then you want to have them all pretty much red candles. If we've got green bonds in disperse within that rundown in the last rundown in price, then they they are likely to cause a, a roadblock to price reaching your patent completion level. No pauses are better it's a smoother way of doing it it doesn't mean if you if you do have pauses in that rundown that you immediately throw it out and look for another one you can't do that there are lots and lots of valid entries that go to target pretty smoothly it just means you need to be aware of them and I'll show you a little bit more about that sort of now so here's pretty thin very shallow m top. This one has just one long, big, juicy candle. Okay.

Pattern completion level's there. We measure where the square up level is, which is that yellow line that's below pattern completion level, so that's okay. So even with that one big juicy candle, which is not as good as several candles together, it would be just about acceptable to take as a trade because the square up level is beyond the pattern completion and you just go for a one to 1 risk to reward on that now in this case here so this is the w with again just really one big juicy candle, in in the in the impulsive move down, pattern completion level is there There's an inefficient candle that's there. Where's the square up level to that? Well, it's there.

Well, how's that relate to the pattern completion? Well, it's below it, and so that's acting as a roadblock, and so that would be a pretty low probability trade or lower probability trade. And you can see as price moved on these are genuinely out of charts you know this is how price does react a lot and price pushes up, hits that square up with the level and reverses off it. Now it did gather enough strength before it would have stopped you out to have another push and went up and possibly would have made target. Well, it did make target, but you need to be aware that that's there and, and and act accordingly so if you would if you were managing your the trade on this one then you'd be fine because that is not enough on its own to actually signify you need to come out of the trade so you'd have probably stayed in that and actually put it eventually hit pattern completion but at least you knew the level was there and you could react accordingly to it plan the trade before you enter so key Absolutely so key.

Now what's an example of excellent previous price action? Well, that's it. That's a great one. Three juicy candles going up into an m top. Beautiful.

Load of candles coming down all red. Beautiful. And again, lots of 1 colored candles going up. So they're all excellent. Impulsive moves all of one color.

No significant retraces. We're fine. That's great. So we need to do more analysis if we get this sort of price action going into an m top because we don't get all impulsive you know, all one color. There are several levels that we've got that, like this one here, that's a different color.

Put a box around the body of that candle. Another one there for this area here, and we'd need to do further investigation looking back in time to see if this area here in particular was a consistent area where price reversed off both as or acted as support and resistance or supply and demand. And we do that by looking back in history, which we'll go into in more detail in the next module. Okay. So this one, not much of an issue really, because that's below price.

So the sorry. That's below patent completion level, so our take profit will be above this level, so that's not an issue. This one is a potential issue because it blocks price coming down through to our to our level. Now this one's different. This one's got a little bit higher up where the levels are.

That's our pattern completion level. That first one, no real issue. It's above where pattern completion is so irrelevant to us. This one here could be a potential issue. Just bang on really where our take profit level is, so we could easily run into that and reverse off.

Now there are occasions where you can actually invalidate a setup and you move on to the next one and you change that. Now this looks like beautiful price action going into a pattern. So beautiful price action going into it, reverse back and go up. But when you look carefully at it, it's not quite as good as it first would appear because there are a couple of levels here where we have had pauses in a different colored candle. And the big one is that we do have at this level here a red candle where we've taken a pause, and it's just below our entry price.

So we haven't got far for price to come down before it hits it. And in this case, it did reverse off it and went up. And so as per our rules, this was an engulfing candle at the top of that got taken out so you would close the trade at this level, but that's in a loss. Don't like losses very much when you don't have to have them, and you didn't really have to have this one because you probably would have passed on the trade because that is too close to entry to, to really take the trade. This one again here, you can see that again there's an area here where just after entry, just after the neckline, we'll be running straight into a potential area of consolidation roadblock, you know, red candles here.

This area is a definite potential reversal very soon after entry, no time to react, so consider passing on it. It's your judgment on it. I very rarely take trades when you've got things like that going on. And this one here, you've got price run down, push back up, comes down, to form the right side of the w. That's an area of concern here, which is around this green candle, and we see price react to that on the middle of the potential w.

Would you want to be taking a trade long when price comes up back up to this area, you know, when we've seen big bearish action? Well, I don't think so, so no point in doing it. Okay. So they're the steps. They're the different ones.

They're the tie they're the different reasons for manually closing a trade or passing a trade or, or invalidating whatever it is. And hopefully that made sense. You need to really go and have a look at those in detail and go over them several times to, until you feel comfortable with each step. So bigger picture is let's just take a step back, you know, you now got a lot of information about, you know, what a good m and w retracement setup looks like, reversal. You know, at the end of this module, it might be a good idea to go and, have a little pause and practice some of the things we've seen.

I'm not talking about do a project or whatever like that. There is a project I will set for this, which is very clear rules but I'm just saying go and have a look in the charts and have a look at previous price action go and see how price reacts to these pauses and breaks in there just just have a look at it and just see and just so you get used to visualizing these things. It's not a specific project. It's just practicing looking at the charts and practice maybe the fib tool or whatever it is that you want to do to get au fait with things and, and obviously practice pending orders and the like. You know?

So yeah. Just practice having a little look. And then we'll move on to the final stages, the real nuts and bolts of the final element in the next module. But you will have some challenges doing this because there's a lot of information here. There's a lot of things that I've gone through that won't immediately, you know, make sense maybe, you know, and you'll have to have a few goes at it and look at it in the charts and see how you can apply it yourself to to to understand it, and that's fine.

You could well be confused and overwhelmed, you know, and you'll have difficulty analyzing the per you know, you know, previous price action correctly. Very difficult to do. You know, you struggle to use the the fib tool. You might might do that. And pending orders, when do I use them?

I'm a orders are alert. Don't know. Not sure about the pending orders, you know, look too confident. No. They're not.

Just a matter of just doing them. And when do when do I close? What's the you know, you can be confused. Of course, you will be. And the nuances of inefficient candles.

Absolutely. Of course. You will be. There will be hurdles. So what can you do to overcome them?

If you're confused and overwhelmed, just keep on revisiting the modules and practicing until it till it lands and sits well with you. You know, if you've got difficulty analyzing the previous price action, well, that comes with experience and observation. Just keep looking at the charts, see what happens, see how price reacts to the previous price action once an m sets up or a w sets up. You know, what happens thereafter? Don't even have to be an m or a w if when the market reverses at any time particularly.

Just have a look, see how it reacts to the previous price action that happened obviously before. And if you're struggling with the fib tool, well, that's fairly easy. You just go and keep on practicing with it. Just familiarize yourself with the settings of it. Make sure you know you've got them set up correctly, and then just use it.

And, a little bit of practice, you'll soon be an expert with that. Pending order and alerts, well, you've gotta learn your broker specifics on this, and that's, gonna be different for lots of different brokers because they have different platforms, and you need to just get competent with it and just keep doing it and doing it and doing it. Manual close confusion, just revisit the modules, so just do one at a time. Take one at a time until you know it, then move on to the next one until you know that, and then the next one till you know that. Don't rush it.

It's too, it's too difficult, you know, and use the bar replay function. It's a brilliant function if you've got it on, on trading view if you've got that, facility there or on where you're charting package. Use it. It's like looking at the market, just speed it up. Fantastic.

Inefficient candle, nuances will just go back over the module, get a feel of it, observe them on the charts, see how price reacts to them again, and just learn. It's just a bit of chart time. It's great just to have a play, having a look at it. I found it fascinating doing it, you know, and a bit sad, honter, but it was a it's just great looking at how price reacted at certain levels and why did it do it. Is it consistent?

Is it something I need to know about and just build that in. So how can we be consistent in the long term? Well, you've got to keep practicing throughout your trading career. Didn't it didn't just stop when you, you know, when you have completed the module and you start to get profitable. You didn't stop.

You wanna get better. You wanna get more profitable. You wanna be more consistent. You wanna spend less time doing more with doing something to earn more. And the and the more you practice, the better you get.

You know, just use the bar replay function. I do it. I still do it now. Still practice. I'm better now than I was 5 years ago as a trader even though I'm older.

I'm better. I think if you actually you know, I have a growth mindset. I want to get better. I want to improve. So challenge yourself.

You know? Do you think Tiger Woods stopped trying to get better when he became a professional golfer? Now Now he wants to become the best golfer we've ever seen. You know? And all you know, arguably, he probably did.

You know? If he just stopped practicing or stopped working at it and stopped trying to get better, stop stop this mindset of trying to be better than what he is, then it would never have happened. So basic stages, obviously, when you're a beginner, things will be tricky. You know? You'd be confused, bewildered.

You believe you'll probably never get it, forget some of the rules, often fail to analyze the previous price action correctly on neglect to manually close a trade when appropriate. You know, that's easily done, And you could easily make mistakes entering, you know, the putting the wrong inputs into, pending orders. I've done it. I've done it. I've done it for a while, but I've done it.

As you get better, you know, you get to an intermediate type of stage, you'll have much more, you know, a much improved understanding, you know, be far less confused. You'll still slip up. Of course, you will. You know? And you won't follow all the rules all the time.

You know? That's just but you'll have developed. You'll have got better. You know, and, you know, while whilst the understanding of the concepts has improved, you'll sometimes apply them, you know, incorrectly or misread the setup. As you advance though, as you move through that intermediate stage and you become pretty much an expert on it, you have full and complete understanding of all the rules and nuances of the pattern and be able to apply them every time, you know, that you better effectively grade the patterns by reading the personal, the previous price action.

You know? You'll be able to see what's gonna happen in the future, better judge it, and you'll be right more times than not. You know? You'll quickly and efficiently set alerts and pending orders that won't be an issue at all. Yep.

And be fully confident, relaxed, you know, in the execution of all elements of building the system. So let's summarize everything. This is pretty just do this as a little checklist. Key points to remember. Assess the immediate previous price action to determine the quality of the pattern.

That's really key. Set a pending by stop order if it's a w or a sell stop order if it is an m or alternatively set an alert close to the neckline of the pattern. You know, if we do have an inefficient candle in the in the previous price action, it can potentially help us, but it can also hinder us, so be aware of both. You know, in some circumstances, it's certainly possible to extend our profit target a little bit more and probably split the trade into 2 maybe. Know when a pattern is invalidated.

Cancel any pending orders that you have open once. If the pattern's been invalidated, you don't want to be entering a trade, so cancel them. You know, or when prices move sideways for too long, you know, and requires the trade to be closed manually, just keep doing that. Just do that. Just religiously, absolutely, on the button.

Don't deviate. Don't be emotional. Just do it. Follow the rules always. That's that is the number one rule is to follow the rules.

It is. It is that. And if you do that, you'll win. If you don't, then you'll struggle. So let's go and practice it.

It's time to do that. There'll be a link to the the practice project here below. Click on that and it will take you through to this area here, which will give you your practice project b. So what I want you to do is and I've done this. I've done this is I want you to identify all the valid m's and w's between January 4th June 20th, 2024 on the one hour chart of the Aussie dollar, Canadian dollar forex pair.

So it's just one instrument you're going to analyze, and you're gonna do it for a period of almost 6 months, and look for every m and w within that and mark them up. And I've done this so that you can actually, validate and self critique your project because I will have gone through it and marked up all the ones I saw. Now I might have missed the odd one, of course I might, It's not. You know, we all make mistakes from time to time, so that would be great. If you find a valid m or valid w that I haven't actually identified on my run through, then that is absolutely brilliant, and I'll be really chuffed about that.

I'll be slightly irritated I missed it, but I'll be chuffed that you saw it. So that would be really good. So try and catch me out on it. It'll take you, you know, probably 4 hours. It depends.

It doesn't matter what it takes. Some of you always through it, you know, and whatever. You you might be a super fast, person doing this. It might take you 2 and a half hours, but somebody else might be 10 hours. Doesn't matter.

Doesn't matter. Being accurate is the best. So I would prefer if you use trading view and if you do do that, use the Aussie dollar, Canadian dollar chart and whilst I normally use the FXCM feed, because it's the best, the normal one. The answer chart and accompanying video was based on the data feed from Oanda which is the 2nd best feed for the Aussie dollar, Canadian dollar. Just so happens that what it was set to when I was playing about testing what the differences were between the feeds, and it just so happens that's the one doesn't matter for this.

They are so close to each other. It's it's hardly makes a difference, but it would be advantageous if you can use the same feed which is Oanda on the Aussie dollar, Canadian dollar. Okay. So it's all there, all the, all the instructions and there they are. So open the Aussie dollar CAD, Oanda data if you can, 1 hour chart in trading view, scroll back to the 4th January 2024, identify all the m's and w patterns by using the bar replay if you can, if you can't then just use the hard right edge of your screen just to scroll forward 1 bar at a time to see if you can identify them.

And it wants to be the ones that have got, I'm not not I don't need to grade them to be, crazy about filtering them out, but the the pattern completion level needs to be encompassed within the bodies of the last run up in price. Okay. Not wonky. They want to be good valid patterns. And then once you've done that, I want you to take a few screenshots of what the work you've done and post them.

And there's there are, instructions there of how to do that, and that would be great to better see that. And then we'll have them all within the project file, and we can see everybody's project and see their screenshots and, and see how you get on with it. Then you can self assess it. So you can click on, the video, the answer video here, and I will run you through all of those, and you can pause that video as you're looking through and compare it to your own chart. Yep.

And post your post your results. Love to see it. Love to see how you get on with it. This is a really good project. You should have some fun doing it, identifying valid m's and w's.

Great. Probably just let let's do it. And that's it. And then I will, we'll see you in the next module.
