
So today, we're going to explore the second module of this course, which will be a Quick Win Strategy. What is it that we're going to learn today? So the basics of how you scan the markets, We're going to use a specific time frame for that, but we're gonna take a trade on a different time frame. So we'll explore the concept of 
. We're gonna learn how to determine the long term and short term trends and direction of the market, and we'll also introduce the basics of some indicators that I use for verification, confirmation, and such.

We're going to, learn a quality trade setup that on its own has about 75% win rate and can really be its own strategy. A quick note here, even though this can look exciting when you're first starting to learn stuff like that, we are going to practice this strategy as a part of my core trading strategy that we'll learn later. Don't go ahead and jump into live trading just after this one lesson. Okay? That's very important.

Demo trading only. By the end of this module, you'll be able to look at price action, have no trouble determining which direction will give us higher probability trades as well as how to identify specific ideal points to enter the market. Okay? Let's dive in. Now why did we decide to introduce this module to get our curriculum started?

As we began trading, it's often tempting to keep trying new things. I'm a victim of this. I did this a lot. I kept jumping strategies every time thinking that, you know, it must be better than what I'm currently doing. We all have that saying in our hand in our head, the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.

This can be very detrimental to our development as a trader because we never stick long enough with any strategy or concept to truly master it. So today, we're going to start with a strategy that has a high win rate. That is important because it will give us the confidence that what we do works. By having that confidence and seeing the results, we are going to build the habit of sticking to our rules. This is very important and it will serve us a very long time.

It will help you stick with the strategy until you truly master it and then you'll be able to incorporate other things into it if you choose to instead of doing these things early on when you don't really understand it. It will also put you in the right frame of mind for future modules and strategies by building on the correct habits and expectations. As I mentioned, this particular strategy incorporates many of the components of my core strategy, which we'll explore in the later modules. Some of the these concepts are scanning the markets, market waves, trends, price action, as well as some basic indicators. Thirdly the lesson will teach you to not over-complicate things which is something that is very easy to slip into when we start learning about trading.

We've all seen people's charts with countless indicators that we can't make heads or tails from. This will also involve dialing in your psychology from the very beginning to keep it simple. Adding something to your strategy does not always make it better. Quite the opposite. Usually, it complicates things.

Just thinking back when I was starting and, you know, trying to figure out what's the the best thing to do when you trade and, you know, the golden indicator that will always give you the winning trades. I will start doing something then, you know, even though it was working somewhat alright, instead of focusing and truly mastering it, I would see something else. I would add another indicator or another concept thinking, well, what I do works, but this must be better. Let me try this. It never did work better, and, you know, it always offer complicated things.

So we'll focus on learning every element of this module properly. It's important that you not only learn every element of this module but the entire course. Being a successful trader is not about this one trade or that one. It's not about the one big win or one loss. It's about consistency.

And developing consistency can be challenging in trading. Why? Because the market can be an awful feature at times. It often rewards bad behavior. We can all think back to breaking a rule of the strategy, like, I don't know, never moving your stop loss.

I've done it. I'm sure you've done it too, and we can all remember that one time that I moved my stop loss. I didn't get stopped out. The trade actually reversed and went into profit. What I did was essentially that I broke the rule of my strategy.

And down the road, if I do that again, it will likely hurt me. And the reason this is so bad is because our brain remembers that we did that, and we won. So we are prone to doing that again in the future. This leads to developing back the bad habits of not sticking to our rules, which leads to inconsistency, which ultimately leads into gambling and not really getting anywhere. It can quickly become like a domino effect where one mistake will lead to another and so forth.

It's very, very important to to stay away from these things, develop the right habits early on, and look for consistency every time we talk about trading. Imagine for a moment what it'll be like when you sit in your desk early in the morning, you sip a cup of coffee, and casually start scanning your watchlist even before the market opens. Half an hour later, you know which pairs might give you the highest quality setups. You can tell that some might not even happen today or maybe not for a day or 2. Once the time comes, you know exactly when to enter the market and when to stay away.

You know when to look for profits and when you can afford to let the winner run. And all of this you're doing on someone else's dime. Reflect back on your future self exercise from the first module. This is exactly how we get there. As we learn the quick win funded strategy, here's some words you'll need to know.

And this is more of a glossary, so keep feel free to refer back to it if you need to. Candlesticks, obviously, as we talk about trading, this is the most commonly used way to look at the markets these days. It's just a graphical representation of price action. We'll talk a little bit more about those, what those are. If this is the first time you're walking into trading, you've never done this before, and you have any questions, do let us know in the comments.

We'll make sure to be to explain that in further detail. We'll talk about some entry patterns that I use, like the engulfing candle entry pattern as well as the 3 bar reversal pattern. Pin bars, those are somewhat common. We'll look into detail what they look like. As I mentioned, we're going to introduce an indicator today.

[08:02] This is Bollinger Bands. I use this a lot to help me visualize the market, set my targets as well as my entries. I hope you're gonna have some fun with Bollinger Bands if you've never used it before. We'll talk a little bit about volatility of price action as well as momentum,the trend as well as corrective price action versus trending price action. Finally, moving average is something we'll mention as well as it is a part of the Bollinger Bands.

This is more of a glossary, as I said, for you to refer back to. We'll explore each of these concepts as as we go deeper into the into the module. You're gonna need some tools for what we're gonna do today. As I said, this is gonna be a practice module, so you'll have some homework to do. The very first one, you'll need a charting platform.

I prefer using TradingView as it is the most commonly used charting software these days, and it also offers free access with all the tools that you're gonna need to do your homework as well as to practice for the future. If you do have access to a demo trading account, that's fine. You can use that so long as you can replay past market data so you can simulate an actual trading environment. It's important for you guys to understand that this is just the very beginning. Do not trade in a live account just based on this one lesson.

This will hurt you. Don't do it. If you have a demo trading account and you want to practice this strategy, that's perfectly okay. Just don't jump into any live trades. TradingView replay tool is what I'll be happy to if you were to use over the next couple of days as you practice these concepts.

There will be a few strict steps that we're gonna use to scan the markets, find our setups, and take our trades, and we'll break this step by step. Okay? 1st, we'll go over each step so that you can practice it yourself. As you practice it, we cannot stress this enough. Use a demo account.

Okay? Take some notes as we go along, and let's dive in. Here are the steps we're going to take. We're starting here, and the first lesson will be scanning the markets. Okay?

We're gonna use a 4 hour time frame, a little bit higher. Why? Because it gives us a more clear picture of the market without some of the noise that you're gonna see on a lower timeframe. What we're gonna be looking for here is potential onset of a trend or a stronger move in the markets. Once we spot 1, we're going to drill down to the 1 hour timeframe.

When we're going to wait for a pullback or retracement, while waiting for the price to set up exactly as we need it to, we have exact guidelines of how to look for and recognize our entry setups. We will not blindly jump into the market just because we saw a big move. We have rules as to how to enter the market. Once all the boxes are checked, we're going to determine our stop loss as well as our profit target, and we're going to take a trade. Once we're in the trade, we have some rules around management.

And there you go. By the end of it, you'll know exactly what to do from start to finish to take a trade using this system. I hope you're as excited as I am, and it's almost time to look at some charts. Step 1: We need to acquire a target. Our first goal is to scan the market for potential trade on a higher timeframe.

We're going to use the 4 hour timeframe. Why? Because it gives us a clearer picture and less noise. Here's what you need to do. You're going to scan all the payers in your watch list in the 4 hour time frame.

If you have no watch list, we'll help you create one. Just throw us a comment or a question for the next session. We'll go over creating that. Once you have seen a pair that has made an initial strong move as described below, you're going to go to the next step. So what is a strong move?

[12:38] This can be a 2 or more solid bars in either direction. We don't care whether the market is going long or short. We're just there along for the ride. Once we see that, we ideally want to see Bollinger Banks in expansion, and we want to see the moving average angled in the direction of the move. All of this is done on the higher time frame.

Why do we do this is because the higher time frame will always be dominant when we talk about established longer term trends and moves in the market. We'll see how that breaks down when we look at some lower time frames, but keep this in your head. You always take your direction from the higher time frame. Let's dive into some examples. I have a couple of those just to kinda help illustrate for you what the stronger move looks like, and that's what we're looking for.

You do see my mouse, I hope. It's not too small. But what we want to see is 2 or 3 bars just like this. Bollinger Banks expanding, moving average angled. Right?

We could have considered this one as well. However, when this move originated, our moving average is angled the wrong way, so it's not ideal setup. Right? This is what we're looking for. Always angled in the direction in which we are looking to trade.

[14:02] Here's another one. That's the pound versus the US dollar. Same thing. We want to see angled moving average in the direction in which we want to trade. 2 or more solid green bars, bands expanding wide.

Why we didn't consider this setup right here, moving average going the wrong way, and the bands are actually contracting. So if this this kinda helps us visualize momentum in the market, and it gives us no confidence to look for a trend reversal here. Right? An example with gold, you have this huge move down here. This actually shows 2 examples here.

And the first one could be this one. Right? It's a little bit too early. Moving average is barely angled the right way. So if you don't consider this a valid setup, that's perfectly okay.

This one is more obvious. Right? Huge move to the downside. Bands wide moving average going the right way. This is what we want to see.

[15:02] Last example, this is the euro yen. You could have considered the first three bars. They don't look all that big and wide, but this is the yen. So this move alone is over a 100 pips. If you put it in perspective, it's enough.

But if you didn't take this into account, these two bars alone are quite quite significant. So this is what we'll focus on. When we scan the markets on the 4 hour time frame, we'll just do this. We'll just go pair by pair and see which pairs might give us a move like this. 

[15:38] Once we identify a setup like this or a potential move that could lead to a setup, we're going to drill down.

It's important to be patient for this step. Okay? What we'll do is we'll go down to the 1 hour time frame. Once we're there, we're going to wait for a pullback. What that means is a price to retrace back to the mean or the moving average touch would be ideal, but coming within 5 pips or so of it would be more than enough.

Ideally, we want this to be a slow move sideways or a slow retracement. We don't want to see too much momentum going against the direction in which we wish to trade. The bands should begin to contract on the 1 hour time frame during this correction. Remember that, price links can be erratic, especially when there's news events or things that might initiate a trade. So we can't just jump in just because we set we saw that huge initial move.

We need to be patient, and we need to wait for the retracement. This will help us in the long term a lot. Market always moves in waves. If we wait out the retracement, and it will always retrace at least partially, it will give us a better quality setup, better risk to reward. We always want to have as little risk as possible, so we don't wanna be jumping halfway through if the market were to retrace deeper.

[17:10] Right? And sometimes that will lead to missing a setup. Right? That's perfectly okay. We don't have to trade every single thing we see.

Here's the same 4 trades setups that I showed you. Drill down step by step. Right? So we saw the initial moves. Here's what happened next.

Right? We saw the initial move in the 4 hour time frame. We waited for the retracement. This is somewhat of a perfect example. Why?

It's sideways. Bars are narrow. No. Not a lot of momentum. Bands are contracting.

[17:47] Perfect example of how we should see a retracement and look for an entry setup. Same here. This is a little bit steeper, but still somewhat, somewhat slow. How do we know that it's slow? You can see how many bars it took for the market to come here and the market to retrace, and it's only retraced, you know, a third of the way.

[18:15] Once the market comes near or touches the moving average, we're free to go ahead and look for our entry setups. The gold trade, this is broken down for you. This is the first early example and how we could have looked for a setup right here when the market actually contracts and touches the moving average. Look at those Bollinger Bands, how quickly that contracted. And this is the second example.

If you didn't take the first rate, this is the second more obvious one. We would have waited for this retracement. Once the market is in the middle, touching the mean, we're clear to look for for an entry. Euro yen, same thing. We saw the initial move.

We wait for the retracement. Mark's touching the moving average. We're go to look for an entry setup. Here, we have a little bit of trying to tell you what it feels like right around this time. I don't know if this is coming with voice for you guys.

Okay. You guys are not seeing this, are you? This sounds a little off. But do you see the clip? Yes.

Oh, okay. Okay. Well, in any case, for those of you who have who have seen the movie, you recognize the scene. It's Braveheart, and they're just keep yelling hold, hold, and wait for the perfect moment to strike. Whenever I first started trading, this is exactly what it felt like.

I wanted to jump into a trade immediately. And what we need to remember is that's not how trading works. You can't just jump. You need to wait for the proper setup. Okay?

So you need to be patient. Never never enter a trade without your setup being validated. Okay? So what is a valid entry signal? 3 three signals we have with this strategy that we can consider for entry.

Okay? Ideally, that they're gonna be above the moving average for a long trade and below for a short. We want to see an engulfing candle, we want to see a 3 bar reversal pattern, or we have some options around a pin bar entry. So keep in mind that in trading, timing can be everything. Enter too soon, without confirmation, and you can be stopped out.

If your retracement is deeper, you could have waited a little bit longer and your risk would have been much much smaller. And on the other hand, if you wait too long, then you might miss half the move. Again, let's look in more detail. This is an example of an engulfing candle pattern. Okay?

Imagine for a moment that price is coming down here. This is the last red bar, and we have this green reversal engulfing candle signaling a potential reversal in price. We would enter right above here as the candle closes and so forth. Another another bullish example and then the 2 bearish ones. So for this one, the price would have been coming up.

We have the last green candle, and then we have a strong engulfing bearish candle. We would initiate a short position right here. For a 3 bar reversal pattern, this is a little bit similar. You would have 3 bars. The the second bar will not engulf the previous one, but the third one will close higher than the the first candle we're considering.

[22:03] It would be the opposite for a short. Now in this example, both candles are red. Right? But this could have been a green candle that would have been perfectly fine. It it doesn't matter what colour the middle candle is.

What matters is that the 3rd candle will close above the first one for a long entry and below the first one for a short. We'll see some examples of that. Pin Bars, they come in all shapes and forms. Right? I do like pin bars a lot because they all usually signify a strong reversal opportunity because the price was violently rejected from a certain level, and I do like trend trading them as well.

[22:46] For the pin bar, we have a few examples. You can always look for the next price for the next candle to close above or below. Right? If this is our pin candle, we would want the next candle to close-up higher. But we have a secondary option as well.

I would consider entering a trade as the price moves past. Right? If this was my my price coming down here, this is my pin bar, I would consider having a an entry position right below. It could be stop buy. Right?

So as the price moves past this candle, I would just enter the trade. Or the safer approach would be always to to wait for the next candle to close. It's okay either way. A slide with all of them in the same place just for your reference if you're new to this and that's the first time you hear of this concept. And now let's let's take a look at what this would look in this particular trades that I had selected for you.

So this is the euro vs dollar, the first example. We waited for the retracement. And right here, we have an engulfing candle. Right? The green bar closes above fully engulfing the previous red candle.

We would initiate a trade right here. For the pound, this is actually not ideal because we are slightly below the moving average. But we do have a 3 bar reversal pattern right here. We were looking for a trend and for a long trade, and, we'll talk about taking a trade if we're below the moving average. Just keep in mind if you're looking for higher consistency and higher win rate, ideally you want to trade once price is above the moving average here.

[24:38] For the gold trade, this is the first example. We have the entry right here, entry opportunity. This could have been a valid entry as well. However, we never really came too close to the moving average. Right here, we barely touched it.

So, ideally, we will take this as our entry setup. We have an engulfing candle right here. And then the second option for the the secondary angle, we have a 3 bar reversal pattern right here. We nearly touched or maybe we touched the moving average here. 1st bar, second bar is kind of an inside bar, and 3rd bar closes below the the green candle.

[25:17] And this is where we would enter right as this bar closes. On the end trade, absolutely the same thing. We have somewhat of a sideways weak correction here, 3 bar reversal patterned after nearly touching the moving average. They would enter right here as this bar closes. Very, very straightforward.

I hope this makes sense. If not, throw a throw a question in the chat box. We'll we'll address this, towards the end of the session. We'll answer questions. So we pulled the trigger.

Right? We we we saw our setups. We're ready to to jump into the trade. How do we do this? First thing we do always is we determine our risk.

We we want to execute the trade. First thing we need to do is determine our stop loss. Okay? We have the valid signal. We're going to look for a stop loss to place below or above a recent price swing.

So it {stop loss} will be below for a long trade and above for a short one. Once we have our stop loss identified, we are going to determine our lot size. Okay? Words of caution. If you're trading yen pairs, gold, anything that's a little bit more volatile, be a little bit more generous with your long stop.

You're always going to be looking for at least a one to one risk to reward. So it doesn't really hurt you in any way. Just keep in mind that price swings a little bit more volatile there. Now that we know what our stop loss would be and we know our account size, we're going to determine our lot size. Do we enter with a full lot, half a lot, whatever that looks like?

We don't want to overrisk on any given trade no matter how good the setup looks. Then we just execute the trade aiming for initial one to 1 risk to reward. This is very, very basic one to 1, and you can stick to that. Okay? Nothing wrong with it.

We'll look at ways to try and stretch this a little bit later. But for the very, you know, plain vanilla version of this strategy, just do one to 1. It it will work really well. Remember always that the clicking just the buy and sell button is always easy. There's a lot more to talk about, you know, in in terms of, trade management.

Just be patient with it. Stick to the one to one for one just for practice purposes. Some examples. This is how we we would set up a stop loss for a short trade. Right?

We have our price swing up high here. We're looking to enter short here at the end of this candle, so our stop loss will be above the recent price swing. For the long example, something similar. Our stop loss always below the most recent price swing, and this is our 3 bar reversal pattern here where we'll initiate the trade. This is a little bit too too close.

It might work at times. You might get stopped out quite a bit. So this is safer. And like I said, we always look for 1 to 1 risk reward to get us going. This is the examples of the trades we have been looking at, same for examples and how they manifested.

Right? This is where we took the trade. It corrected a little bit deeper into our stop loss area. It doesn't it doesn't really matter. You never really get scared.

You have made the calculations beforehand. Your stop loss is way below this recent price swing right here, and we have a 1 to 1 risk reward. It took us a day or so into this trade. No problem. Pound, same same deal.

It it did correct a little bit deeper. Our stop loss is below the recent swing, so we we just patiently wait. And we got, what is this, maybe a day or so again. For the gold, this was quite a bit faster. Gold can be quite volatile if you catch if you catch the momentum of it.

For the first example, if you ever considered this, it only took us an hours. Well, if we entered here, it took us 3 hours or so. The second trade was much smaller because our risk was much smaller, but we still got it within 3 or 4 hours. Finally, the yen, same situation. We we entered our trade down here.

We looked for this on the since yen is a little bit more volatile, I would even drill to the 15 minute time frame to see where I can place my stop loss. This was a little bit too much. So I looked at this candle down here, and there was a correction here in the 15 minute time frame, and that's where that's where I anchored my stop loss. This was quick trade, 8 hours or so. Very, very easy.

How do we use this strategy to get a little bit more of the market? Once you see it works, you always think, well, okay. Can I can I just get a little bit more? And truth be told, you can. We always want our winning trades to take a little bit more.

Right? It's never enough. Not just because I am greedy, but because, you know, the more the the more you get out of your winning trades, the more you make in the end of the day. These trades originate on a 4 hour time frame. So it's very it's very likely that if you're involved in a 4 hour time frame trend, whether it's in the beginning or the middle of it, you can ride it for a time.

Okay? It's it's always a good thing to try and let let a runner keep going if you think that the price will continue in that direction. And you can do that with this strategy. I will give you a advanced trade management option here. Again, for the sake of exercise, practice with the 1 to 1 first.

This is going to be a little bit more advanced. So one step at a time, guys. Be patient with it. But if you wanted to let any of these trades run a little bit longer, what you want to do is close half your position at one to 1 risk reward. Okay?

It's very important that we don't get greedy without securing some profits. Market can be erratic. It can always turn around and go against you. Okay? If you had the one to 1, take some off always.

Once you have done this, you're going to trail your stop loss for the remainder of your position until you determine an exit point. This can be done in a few different ways. What I would recommend is you move your stop loss further and further into profit with every market pivot. Okay? If the market corrects against you, then trend resumes, you move your stop loss, always locking more and more profits.

Alright. Another thing you can do is use the upper and lower band and just trail your stop loss behind it. So that'll be the lower band for a long trade and the upper band for a short trade. Remember that you only want to move your stop loss in the direction of your trade. Okay?

You're never going to move it back. Once you've secured profits, you're not giving that up. Okay? Always always move it further into profit. Let's see some examples of what happened to our the trades that we just looked at and what what happened if we had let it run a little bit more.

The euro trade, we could have easily made at least another one r, just letting it run to the top. If you wait, you know, further in, it gets much better, but that's a very, very long trade trade. The pound, probably 3 times our risk if we just let it run to the top. Very, very good setup. Gold, this was in the midst of correction, so not really much more to look down here.

However, if we took the first trade, this was a very high momentum. We could have let that run for a long time. And finally, the yen. Look at how miniscale that was. Yen can be very, very volatile pair.

So getting into a trade like that, our risk was only 40 pips. We caught 1 r. So we basically captured 40 out of 650 pips to the top. I'm not saying you're gonna capture all of it, but you could have easily let this run for 2 or 3 times your risk. Something to think about.

Again, always start with the with the one to 1 restore award and go from there. As you get more more experience with this, you'll be able to to make these decisions a little bit, you know, easier, when to let it run, when to really cut it short. So let's recap. We started with, you know, knowing nothing, and we we ended up this kinda didn't pop in place. But we we're gonna talk or we talked about scanning the 4 hour time frame, going through our pairs, looking for an initial price swing of significance, 2 or more wide range bars.

We wanna see momentum by seeing the Bollinger Bands expand, and we want a moving average angled in the direction in which we're gonna trade. Once we see that, we're going to drill down to our 1 hour time frame, and we're going to wait for a pullback until we see a correction to the mean or the moving average. Once we touch the moving average or we are really close to it, we're going to, we're going to wait for a valid entry setup. What are those? We cover them in golfing candle.

We have a 3 bar reversal pattern or a pin bar entry. Once we see an entry signal, we determine our stop loss below or above a recent price swing, and we execute our trade with initial target of 1 to 1. We do have a option for a trade management for looking for more profit, and then that's all that you need to know for this particular strategy. Alright. Since we do have a little bit of questions and I have also a little bit of time to show you how I would do this, Do me a favor, guys, and throw a couple of your favorite pairs into the chat.

What do you normally trade when you trade forex? And we'll take a life example here. I'll show you how I set some of these things up. Alan says a pound US dollar. There we go.

So for those of you that don't that don't recognize this, this is trading view. Right? And let's take a plain vision. We said pound dollar. So a few things.

I saw questions about moving average. The moving average that I use is actually the moving average from the Bollinger Bands. It comes with the moving average. So what we'll do is we'll add Bollinger Bands, and I use the plain vanilla one. Okay?

You're not gonna change anything about this except maybe the colors. I do like changing the colors. So if you use different, color for your background, feel free to adjust this so you can see it. But the inputs, you're not gonna change any of this. Your source will be the close of the candle, and you're gonna look at the last 20 candles.

So if I change the time frames, we're looking at data from the last 20 hours. If we're looking at the 4 hour time frame, then it's the last, whatever, 80 hours. Never change anything except the time frame. Okay? Keep it plain vanilla.

No need to complicate it. So how are we gonna do this? We're going to pick our pair. Let it be the pound dollar, and we're going to pick a random date in the past, let's say, 22. We go back in into the past to this period.

Okay? There's limits to how far how far back you can go based on the time frame you're using. So do this in the 1 hour first. Activate the replay feature like this. And then you're gonna go to the 4 hour and you're gonna do exactly what we said we're gonna do.

Okay? We're going to scan the markets for a move of significance. We might have missed one here. So we're gonna do another one. Alright.

Here we go. 2 or 3 bars in our direction. Right? Moving average is angled up. Bands are expanding.

Perfectly valid setup without doing anything back to see, you know, if there's any support or resistance levels. We'll talk about those in future modules. What we wanted to see is 2 or 3 bars in either direction. Seems like we have a long term trend here to the to the upside, so that's even better. What we want to do now is go down to the 1 hour time frame and wait for our pullback.

Ideally, we want to touch the moving average. We came pretty close here. We didn't quite touch. 5, 6 bps. That's okay.

What else we see here is we already have an engulfing candle here. We can go this one. You can consider it as a 3 bar reversal pattern. That's okay as well. What we want to do next is determine our stop loss and profit target.

So we'll enter the trade at the close of this candle, previous swing here, right below. Let's say 65 pips, and we're gonna look for 65 to the upside. Not looking too good for our first example. So this is tricky. If the trade goes against you like this, you always go back to the main timeframe that you took your direction from, right?

We're still above the moving average. We're close to where we entered. That's what I'm saying. We would if it's not going our way, this is when we would reevaluate. The trend is still going to the upside.

We have a little bit of a pullback. We're still above. I would just stick with it. But if we see a trend reversal potentially in the the higher timeframe, the Bollinger band curving down into our trade, then I would I would cancel it early. For right now, we're just gonna take it to see how it went.

Right? We are not gonna do anything. We just want to practice the concept pretty close. And there we go. Oh, well, you know, the winner, this is how I want you to practice this.

You're you're gonna have a practice project at the end of this module. Ideally, that's exactly what you do. You're going to pick a random pair, go to a random point in the past and just replay. Do this. It doesn't matter whether you win or lose.

What matters is to follow the rules. Okay? Let's see. Jonathan, how are we doing with time? Do we have time for one more?

We do. We have 15 minutes. Alright. Let's take one more. What's the next player?

Well, d d says gold. I mean, do you do this on things apart from forex? I have not tested it on equities, so let's let's look at gold. That's fine. Well, if if you only do it on forex, we we Kristen came with the euro, Aussie.

That's fine. Gold is fine too. I do trade gold. So either either way, it doesn't really matter. Let's look.

Alright. Let's see. How far back are we going? Now we'll go to, I don't know, 2022. Whatever.

It's my dad's birthday, so there we go. Let's see what he has for us. We do bar replay. It's kind of fortunate that both times we see an established trend right from the get go. It's not always the case when you back test, so be mindful of that.

Why am I already switching? Because I already see what I want to see. We have a white Bollinger band. We have a good solid trend from the get go. This is perfectly fine.

I would already be looking for a retracement here so I can join this move. I don't need to see anything else here. Angled moving average, everything we need to see, it's right here. So we do exactly what we said we will do. We look for a retracement to the moving average.

This is running for a while without giving us a chance. Alright, there we go. Right there. We touched the moving average. We have almost an engulfing candle, so that's not quite.

This could be considered a pin bar although the body is just about 5050. If I see something like that, what I would do is I would have a an entry right here. Long position, not necessarily as the close. I mean, with the price action like this, I will take it. But to stick to the rules, we'll have it on the top of the other candle.

You can go down to the 15 minute. Put your entry right above this other candle. So if the price continues after the pin bar, we automatically go into the trade. The previous price swing is down below. No.

That's quite a bit, actually. So this is important. Right? This is a 115 pips. This is a big, big move.

So we need to enter with a much, much smaller slot size than we normally would. Let's see how we go. Find winner, 1 loser. Not not ideal, but there you go. You can't win them all.

Like I said, what's important here is that we follow all our rules. Okay? We waited and waited until we saw a valid entry signal. Once we got it, we executed our trade, stop loss near the the recent swing. This just as you get experienced with trading this, you would probably be a little bit more hesitant and reduce your risk even further.

Why? Because we had such a strong move. Right? This is 500 pips. A deeper correction is more than more than common.

Okay? Don't let that bother you. There's there's no strategy that wins a 100% of the way, But this will be very consistent. And if you execute the trades like I'm showing you, you're gonna get about 75% win rate. Alright.

Let's go back to our presentation. Any questions on what I just did, guys? I have a couple of folks who are just asking, with regards to your your settings, for the for the Bollinger Band. So it's the 20 and on the close. Is that correct?

That's right. Plain vanilla. Here you go again. Right? This is the settings that the plain indicator comes with.

It's based off the close of the candle, standard deviation is 2, and your period is 20. You don't change anything. Just leave it as is. You can change the colors so that they work with whatever background you have. Everything else, just leave it as is.

Ted also just wants a bit of with regards to the entry. So this is done on the 1 hour with the trend analysis on the 4 hour. Is that right? Correct. You analyze the initial price move on the 4 hour.

Once you once you spot that, once you see your 2 or 3 candles, you go down to the 1 hour, and this is where you're gonna you're going to wait for a pullback and then for a valid entry. The moving average the moving average is a part of the Bollinger Bands. It's not an additional indicator. It just comes with it, and it's based on the 20 period just like everything in the Bollinger Bands. Makes sense?

Perfect. Alright. Let's keep going. So as you said, as you see, this is not the just the one thing to keep in mind as you trade this strategy. Okay?

Make sure that you practice a lot. You need to internalize each each component, each element of it. It's it will get easier the more you do it. So practice is very important. Since you have somewhat of a holistic understanding of how this works once you have practiced it plenty, let's see how it fits in the bigger picture.

So, yeah, finally, some charts. Right? This was quite exciting, but let's let's recap of what we went through today. So we learned how to scan the markets and the basics of multi time frame analysis. We learned how to determine direction, long term and short term.

Right? The long term direction is the initial move on the 4 hour time frame. The long term direction will be our pullback on the 1 hour time frame. We learned how to use Bollinger Bands and the basics of moving averages. And finally, about the 75% win rate trade setup that you can go ahead and practice right right from this point.

When I say practice, I mean practice. Okay? It's important to remember that this is only the first module of this course, and think of it as if you're building a house. Each brink each brick will be its own module. Very soon soon over a couple of weeks or a month, you'll be able to have the entire course in in front of you.

And right now, our only goal is to practice. No live trading just because you sell saw this one module. Okay? It's it's important to know and be patient. Know that there is much more to learn.

As you start to practice this, it will be tempting, I promise, to go and, you know, make a couple bucks. You're gonna see a good setup here and there. It happens to all of us. I've been there. Just take a deep breath, guys.

This is the the first lesson. There's much more more to go over, and it's just meant to give you some basics and put you on the right path. We're just getting warmed up. Okay? And let's see.

So as we are starting, if this is the first thing we're going over, when we're practicing this setup and entries, it's important to keep in mind that we're having this concept at this stage of our curriculum for a reason. Why? Well, it teaches you good habits. As you already know, being a successful trader is about consistency and sticking to your rules always. By having a successful strategy that's right more often than not, it will also build your confidence.

As a successful trader, you need to execute trades without any doubt, okay? If you doubt yourself any step of the way, whether it's when we analyze the market or consider a trade setup or prior to entering a trade, we're gonna be stuck. We're gonna cancel trades. We're gonna get out early. We'll we'll make plenty of mistakes.

Okay? Doubt is an enemy. Confidence is key. Here's some hurdles that you might face and need to overcome right from the start. The first one is always going to be patience.

Impatience is problem 1 for most traders. It has been for me. I'm sure it's it has been for many of you as well. Whenever we see a setup, we're always excited to take a trade. It's important to wait for a clear trade setup.

Okay? Valid entry signal. Wait for our pullback. All of these things are very important. Another one could be the temptation to not practice enough.

You know? For some of us that have seen all of these things before, it will be tempting to say, I know this. I don't need to necessarily spend too much time. This can be a problem. Okay?

You need to internalize these concepts. Trust the process. Especially since we're not trading live, it is very tempting to just take a few examples and think that you're you're done with it. Move on. If you Slack now, you will Slack later as well.

Build the foundation right. Okay, guys? You must practice. Absolutely must. For some of us that are not trading full time, making time to practice can be challenging.

It's one thing to, you know, make time for trading if you're actually making money. Since we're demo trading right now, it's it's much harder. Think of it as, you know, everything else that matters in life. There's a good quote, from Jim Ross. If you want if you really want to do something, you'll find a way.

If you don't, you'll find an excuse. I think it fits right in. By using the replay feature of TradingView, you can practice at your own time. It doesn't matter what time of the day it is. Just make sure you carve half an hour or an hour here and there and do it every single day.

The more you do it, the easier it gets. Once you've successfully mastered, and gone over these barriers, you'll be a master of everything we've been over today. So make sure you're so make sure it's your goal and make aware of the barriers that you may face. Make sure that you don't fell fall victim to them. So let's take a quick look at what you can do and how it fits into the bigger picture.

So as a trader, scanning the markets, especially when you've begun, can be challenging. Right? The time spent as you first begin, it might take you an hour or, you know, more to scan 20 to 30 pairs. With practice down the road, it will take you 20 to 30 seconds. So time spent goes down significantly as you get better and better at it.

Quality is another thing that you get much better at with time and with practice. At first, you might struggle to make sense of price action. It's just, you know, some scribbles on a chart. Makes no no difference why one way or the other. But the more you look at it, the more sense it will make, the more clear everything will become.

And then habits. The more you do this, the easier it becomes. It's a second nature. You want to become as good as this that you can only do it with a glimpse. You can't take a trade if you never see the potential setup ahead of time.

And if you don't take a trade, you never make any money. Right? This is how the process works. So as you go ahead and practice these, this is an outline of the stages that you go through. As a beginner, it'll take you much longer.

It'll be difficult to do. Price section will make no sense. Setups might be easy to miss. You hesitate a lot and frustration is common. Okay?

It's just part of the journey. Just stay the course. As an intermediate, everything starts getting a little bit easier, a little bit smoother, takes less time. You know, everything starts to make sense. You see setups everywhere.

You begin begin to get some confidence, sometimes a little bit too much. I've been there. I'm sure you'll get through that too. Here, the keyword is patience. Okay?

Don't get ahead of yourself. Apologies. And then once you have actually mastered it, everything is a second major. It almost seems too easy to spot these things. You see it all the time even in a glimpse of an eye.

The market, the direction, the setup, all of it. You can you can tell the good setups from the bad ones. And what really feels like is they need the nerds with another video clip. You guys see the movie? Alright.

That's Neil seeing the see alright. That's Neo from The Matrix seeing The Matrix for the first time. No struggle. No excitement. Everything is just at your fingertips.

You can do whatever you want. Takes no no struggle, takes no effort. When I was trying to think of how to explain this feeling, this came to mind, so I thought I'd share it. Just see things differently. Okay?

I thought it's really cool analogy. Apologies for nerding out on you guys. And I'll stop it here, but you get the picture. Look at that. No effort.

It's just yeah. Whatever. It's just everyday stuff. So let's summarize. Okay?

Everything we've learned and how to move forward. Here are the key points you need to remember. We want to analyze the market on the 4 hour time frame. We're looking for a strong move, expanding Bollinger Bands, and angle moving average in the direction in which we wish to trade. Once we have that, we're going to go back to 1 hour.

We're going to wait for a pullback to the moving average or the mean of the Bollinger Bands, and we're going to wait for our valid entry signal. Okay? Those are engulfing candles, 3 bar reversal, or a pin bar. Once we have a valid trade signal, we are going to consider our stop loss. Based on that, we're going to determine our risk.

The larger the pip amount, the smaller the lot size we're going to take, and that's always going to be based on the account size that you're trading. Never wanna risk too much on any given trade. Once we have our stop loss, our initial target will always be 1 to 1. Perfectly fine if that's all you take. The the more consistent, the better, and one to 1 is always gonna be your friend.

You're always gonna get at least that much of a trade. Well, not always, but 75% of the time, we'll get at least that much out of a trade. If you wanted to catch more, take half of your position off at 1 to 1 and just trail your stop loss from thereafter. Timing is crucial, guys. Right?

We don't want to be too early. That gets us exposed to too much risk, wider stop loss. We don't wanna be too late because, again, our stop loss will be wider. We would have missed quite a bit of the move. Patience is key.

Just wait for the right moment to enter the market. And then as we mentioned earlier, dominant time frames like 4 hour will give you the direction. If you're ever hesitant of whether you take a trade or not, just go back to the 4 hour. If the momentum is clear there, No hesitation on the lower time frame. It's time now for you to go ahead and practice this.

Okay? As you go through this practice project, ask yourselves the following. Am I following the instructions properly? How can I practice this even more to really dominate this, module? Are there any areas of weakness that are showing, and how can I improve?

Remember to share your projects with your fellow students in the legacy Hangout room. And for the specifics of the practice project, let's take a look at this. This file will be shared with all of you just like the 1st week's project was. But, basically, what we want to do is we want to find 5 quick win trades using the TradingView replay tool just like I showed you or a demo account. This should take you just a couple of hours, but if you're busy with your day to day, feel out, feel free to spread those few hours over a couple of days.

Okay? It's important to do the work, not how quick you do the work. What you need is really trading view is my go to. It's free, so use that. If you have access to a demo account, you can use that as well.

Just make sure that it has the capability to replay past data. And you need a copy of this document because you're gonna be filling out into it. There is instructions on how to download the copy. It's right there in your file. So step 1, choose a currency payer.

Go to a random point in the past just like I did. Use market replay tool and simulate market conditions. Start with the 4 hour time frame just like I did. Keep scrolling forward until you see a strong move like we explained, 2 or more bars in either direction, expanding Bollinger Bands, all of that. Once you have that, zoom to the 1 hour time frame and wait patience patiently for a pullback.

Once you have your pullback back to the mean, look for a valid entry signal. When you have it, determine the stop loss, your profit target, and keep going forward until you see how the trade manifests. Remember, use TradingViews replay tool or a demo account. No live trading at this point. Once you have taken those simulated trades, capture screenshots, and upload them in the bottom of this document.

There's specific sesh section where you would do that. Repeat this process 5 times and with 5 different trades. Ideally, you wanna do it with different instruments as well. So don't don't stick to just your dollar or whatever payer you trade at this point. Just see how different, different pairs behave.

It's always good to have various experiences. Like I said earlier, some things like the or gold can be quite volatile. So just practice practice as much as you can. We need 5 here, but feel free to do more on your own time. You should, actually.

Once you're done with all these 5 steps, 5 trades, complete the self assessment tool, below and create a post where you're gonna upload this document. Write a post titled quick funded, the funded trader quick main project, and you're gonna include 3 of your best setups and important moments as explained below above. I'm sorry. There's a self assessment tool here for you to make sure that you follow the rules, of this project. It's a very quick yes and no.

And if you have to answer no to any of those questions, you can always go back and redo everything. Okay? Did I select 5 forex pairs? Go back to random times within the last few years. Obviously, that's where you would start.

Did I use the market replay tool to identify potential setups? Did I transition to the 1 hour time frame, and did I execute the trades using TradingView or in a demo account following all the rules of the trading strategy? Did I capture the screenshots for each setup, the initial move, the valid entry moment, and the end result? If you answer yes to all 5, then you are done with your homework. Just make the post, and we'll go from there.

This document, along with the recording, should be available to you guys in the next few days as quickly as the team can edit all of this and get it set up. I hope this was fun. Jonathan, I know you have another call coming up. Do we have any q and a that we need to address? We have one last one last question.

Thank you very much. This has been super interesting. I can't wait to get tackled into this. So Don asks, do you take any consideration to support and resistance? So yes.

Of course. There is much more to learn about my core trading strategy as well as how to make this strategy as efficient as possible. Remember, right now, we're just using a basic concept. For the purposes of this practice, you're not going to worry about supply and demand levels, support, resistance. Just practice taking trades based on what we went over.

In the future modules, we're going to expand. We're gonna have rules on when to take trades, when not, and how to judge whether or not a move is likely or not. All of this will come. For right now, just stick with what we talked about and just practice it. Okay?

It's important for you to be able to identify it. Everything else is still to come. Brilliant. Thank you so much, Denis Love. Very, very interesting.

Christian just just echoed my comments. Very interesting indeed. Can't wait to, dive in and can't wait to And can't wait to, dive in and can't wait to to to learn more. And, folks, we'll see you all with Simon in 20 minutes. Busy day.

Thank you, guys. See you all next week.
