
Greetings, Fast Track crew. Welcome to today's very special session with, Denislov Bartev. Thank you very much for joining us here today, taking eyes off, the the old, was it, Swiss pears at the moment, and, hope you're all doing very, very well. So today, Denislov is gonna be presenting his course on how to adapt any strategy for a prop firm. So I shall be taking very careful notes on this.

So, without further ado, let's get down to business, to Denis Love. Thank you. Thank you, Jonathan, and good morning, everybody. I hope you're having a wonderful week so far and excited for things to be moving around a little bit. It's been a quiet January, but this is a news packed week, so plenty of things to look at.

We are a small group today. This is just you fast track folks that have access for to this training for now. Later, it'll be released to all the legacy students. But as Jonathan said, today, we're really gonna be talking about how we can convert any strategy that start here in the academy and trade it within a ProForm account in order to get funded and, get access to these 6 figure accounts that these folks offer. So have a lot to walk you over or through.

Feel free to ask questions. I'll go through the training, then we'll come back and and answer any questions you have asked. So let's dive straight in. Alright. Strategy adaptation.

Here we go. So what are we going to be talking about today? Well, obviously, we're gonna be talking about how to convert any strategy talk here in the academy and adapt it for trading in a prop firm. There's quite a bit of work that goes into that. So in this one module, we're going to summarize everything that you need to know.

1st, making sure that the strategy is compatible with the firm that you're looking to trade with. Then we're gonna learn about how to fit within the risk management guidelines. And lastly, when we can exercise discretion and where we need to be careful in order not to violate any rules or blow up the account. First things first, why you should be learning this? Well, you might have been in the academy for a while now or brand new to the community.

In any case, you're probably familiar with the training bible that we have here, which is your student progression plan. And in fact, if you have been through it, you know that it likely will take you many, many years to grow your trading account to the point where you can rely on it for income. So what's the shortcut? Well, in trading, there are no real shortcuts, right? So the real shortcut to the process of getting to a place where you can sustain yourself by trading is trading pro form capital, right?

Using using other people's capital to quickly scale your trading account. This is what we're gonna learn how to do today and how to adapt our strategy for such a thing. So you can benefit from access to that, trading capital. If you don't learn this, having, you know, having a consistent strategy is hard enough. And many people never get to the point where they master 1.

But when you try to just use your strategy in a pro form a account, you'll encounter some unique challenges. If you're not aware of them and how to overcome them, you're going to fail challenges, blow up accounts, waste lots of time and even more money. But imagine for a moment what it would be like when you managed to shave ears off of your trading journey to generating income from your trading by knowing how to partner with the right prop firm. Always keep in mind why you came to the Academy and why you're putting in all this hard work. Remember, there are no shortcuts in trading when it comes to being a profitable, consistent trader, but this is as close to one as it gets.

Knowing this skill isn't going to make you a better trader in your strategy, but it will allow you to leverage your skills once you have learned how to trade your strategy, whichever strategy it is that you're using. When you combine this knowledge with any strategy top here in the academy, you will be that much closer to having a 60 figure account, that you always wanted and being the trader that you always dreamed of. Having, you know, access to the to all the benefits that come, from that lifestyle. Here's the tools that you're going to need for this. 1st, a consistent profitable strategy that you have already mastered.

Okay? Today, we're not going to be teaching you a strategy. This is going to teach you how to adapt one that you have already learned. You're going to learn how to use a position size calculator, so access to 1 is a must. And then you're going to need a basic understanding of some Proform rules.

Steps to how steps to adopting a strategy for Proform Trading. We're gonna go over them step by step as we always do. We'll break it down, and then you're gonna have a chance to practice in the end. Let's dive in and break it into all the components that you're going to learn today. We're going to start with a strategy.

Right? You should already know or you should be already working on the mastering one of the strategies or few of them here in the academy. They're all 60, 70, or more percent win rate strategies. So this is where we start. K?

We need to have a strategy mastered. Once we have learned a strategy, we're going to talk about holding periods. Right? Some platforms have restrictions around those. We'll talk about the instruments that your strategy calls for, what do you really trade, talk about the execution rules, anything you need to know around, restrictions that you might face.

And then we'll dive into the 2 biggest things. Okay? This is going to be risk management and mindset. Once you reach the point where you have covered all this and really mastered them, you should have no problem getting funded and trading ProForm Capital. Step 1, your strategy and the Proform.

In this first step, we will verify that the strategy you trade is compatible with the Proform of your choice. K. There's plenty of pro forms out there. They come with various rules and restrictions as to what you can actually trade, when you can trade it, and how to manage those trades. Right?

Before signing up with any one pro form, you need to make sure that your strategy actually fits, their rules. If you don't, you're sure to break a rule eventually and fail. This will cost you money, effort, time, endless frustration. So how do we actually do this? 1st, we need to check any rules around holding periods.

Okay? For example, if you're trading a swing trading strategy that calls for you to hold trades overnight or over many days, over the weekends, it wouldn't work with a platform that will force you to close your trades at the end of the day or at the end of each week. Right? You need to be aware of any such rules that they might have. Second thing is we need to check the instruments that are offered by the pro form.

Right? If your strategy takes, trades equities, for example, like SIDS does, obviously, it wouldn't work ideally for forex instruments, right, or futures and vice versa. We need to be aware of what instruments are allowed by the pro form a of our choice and make sure that this is compatible with our strategy. 3rd thing is we need to see any rules around execution. Right?

Make sure there are no restrictions on when you can execute trades, that might interfere with your strategy. Once you're done, you will know if the platform of your choice suits the strategy that you trade or if you should keep looking for a different one. Here's some examples. Right? These guys over here, for example, offer only futures at present.

They have a plan to offer stocks, forex, crypto, and so forth. But if you trade forex, for example, these guys have nothing, that can offer you. Right? And if you're not aware of that ahead of time, you're just gonna sign up for a challenge that will cost you money, and then you won't be able to do anything with it. These guys over here, for example, have restrictions on holding trades over the weekend.

Each trade that you don't close by Friday close of market needs to be approved by risk management and so forth. This is obviously not gonna work for any of the swing trading strategies that we teach here in the academy. So any longer term trades will be disqualified. Further, they require you to close any position that you have before major news events. And sometimes that's a very prudent thing to do, but your strategy might not necessarily require you to do this.

So this might actually hurt your overall, probability of success. Right? These guys over here, for example, they allow you to trade to hold trades overnight, but they reduce your margin to only 10% of the margin you have throughout the day. Right? So that's a significant limitation as you can only keep very, very small positions overnight.

This particular, firm offers equities, which is very common. Most of them don't even allow you to have trades overnight. But if your strategy calls for holding trades overnight like SITS does, this is obviously going to hurt you. So these are all examples of things that you need to be aware of before you sign up for any of their challenges. The second step is to learn how to reduce your risk.

Okay? Your goal here is to reduce your risk and make sure that you don't blow up the account. Most prop firms will cut you anywhere between 6 to 10% drawdown. So this means you need to adapt your strategy so that you never lose this much within the account. How do we do it?

Well, every time we identify a position and the stop loss in pips, we're going to use a position size calculator to help us, calculate how much that pip percentage will equate to the dollar amount we're willing to risk on that trade. For example, if your strategy calls for 1% risk, we're going to learn how to reduce that to 0.5, right, half a percent of risk per trade, or even a quarter of a percent risk per trade initially, and then scaling up after we build a little bit of a buffer. We'll take a look at, position size calculators and how to use that if you've never done it before. Then we'll execute the trade with those new risk parameters, and everything else will be in terms of trading as it was be before you started trading with the ProFirm. Right?

It's we're just going to shift our mentality here about trading smaller lot sizes. Just so you know, a fair disclosure. Right? This is not a full guide on trading with the prop firm. Right?

For any additional information, you have access to the Fund the Trader curriculum. So if you have any questions, just hop on there. It'll be answered there. It's very detailed. Let's take a look for a second here as to how we use a position size calculator.

So Here we go. So this is my Facebook, position size calculator. You just if you just Google position size calculator, there is more many that come out. I don't think there's any particular, you know, way to rate them good to bad. I don't see too many ads here, and my effects book are very popular.

So I've used this quite a bit. It works fine. But what you need to know is a few components. Right? If you've never used this before, you're gonna have a chance to practice.

First thing you need to understand is you need to put in your account size. Right? Whatever that account size is. Maybe you trade a $10,000 account or a $20,000 account. This is where the account size goes.

Up until now, you might be used to risking 1% risk per trade. Right? So we're gonna talk about how to risk half or even quarter of a percent of risk per trade. Right? So the your risk ratio percentage, this is what, that input is.

And then for each trade that you take, you're going to fill out the stop loss that your strategy calls for. Right? Maybe you're trading whatever it is, supply, demand, head and shoulders, doesn't matter. Each strategy will tell you where you should be placing your stop loss. So maybe that's 50 pips.

Maybe it's 75 pips. It doesn't matter. This is where the input goes. The last thing is the pair. Right?

Each pair has slightly different dollar values. So, for example, eurodollar 75 pips trade, taken with quarter of a percent risk on a $20,000 account, will tell you you need to be placing your trade with 0.007 lot size. But if you were to go, I don't know, New Zealand yen, for example, it will allow you to take the same trade with 0.1 lot size. Right? So the value will change based on the pair slightly, and you'll definitely need to be, putting that into your calculation.

You'll have a chance to practice this. It's part of your project, but we'll come back to it at the end of the presentation if you have any questions on how to really navigate it. Alright. Present you. Here we go.

So you're you're probably thinking, wait a minute. You you want me to trade penny trades? Like, what are these small what sizes? Why bother trading such a, you know, small size and aiming for such a small profit? The goal for this here, at this stage, is going to be not to blow your account.

Okay? You need to shift to having a little bit of a longer term mentality. Your priority here is not to make money. Right? You're you're not going to be a millionaire just because you're trying to pass a challenge or even as as soon as you get funded.

Your goal is simply not to blow the account. That's that's all it is. How do we do it? Face the reality of placing trades with smaller smaller lot size. When you think about it for a second, if you get funded with a 100 k account, you can sustain yourself.

Right? Making 1 or 2%, maybe 3 per month. It's a very, very good income. Some people make this much in their actual 9 to 5 jobs. So if you get to that point, it's very easy to get tricked trying to, you know, immediately start putting on higher size trades with, you know, the the mentality of making more money.

But this can easily cost you the account, right, over a couple of lost trades. In reality, smaller lot sizes with a prop firm can make more than a a larger small size a larger lot size placed in your personal account. Right? The difference comes by the huge capital that these firms can often extend to you. So keep all of this in mind.

Okay? Trading with a pro firm can save you years, if not decades, of grinding with a small account trying to grow it so long you play by the rules. So I'll show you guys something that you might have seen already, but a quick comparison as to what I mean by saying that this can actually save you a lot of time. Right? So this is a simple calculation of what it looks like when you start trading your own money.

Okay? Make an assumption. We'll focus on this second column here. Right? We'll assume that you're trading with $10,000 account.

You did the training. You learned the strategy. You finally put some money out there. You start at $10,000. So your investment, your cost is 10 k.

We're going to assume that you make 4% per month. Hope this is large enough for you guys to see. Right? 4% per month, significant but realistic gain. Right?

1% a week or so. So what does that actually mean in terms of how quickly you scale, how you grow your account? Well, after month 1, $400. That's what you made. Right?

A little bit more after month 2 and so forth. 1 year in, you have grown your account. Oops. 1 year in is here. You've grown your account by about 60%.

That's amazing, right? If only we could get that just by investing stock market, people would be jealous. But at the same time, right, this is 1 year of grind for you that you never took a penny out, and you've only grown your account by $6,000. Fast forward a little bit. 5 years in.

5 years is here. 5 years in or so is what you need to do to get to a 6 figure account. Right? This is 5 years of hard work that you never took a dime out of your account. You never had a down month.

Right? Which is a tricky assumption to make. But let's say you did that for took you 5 years to get to 6 figures account. At which point now, $4,000 a month might be something that you can kind of supplement your income with. Right?

5 years grind, 4% per month to get to this point. What that looks like when you trade with a prop firm. K. So we'll focus on this example. Your cost for this specific example is only a 10th, right, not even a $1,000.

You're going to have to pass an evaluation, and once you do, they'll start you off with a $4,000 every $40,000. Every time you hit 10% within this account, they will double your capital. What that looks like, right, first, you're gonna practically waste, you know, 5 months getting your initial 10% before you get funded. So by 5 months, you're already at 40,000. End of year 1, you're nearly at 600.

It's it's 6 figures account. Right? You're at 80,000. One thing that I have to highlight here is that taking the prop firm journey, you're actually allowed to take money as you trade. Right?

You taking money out of the accounts does not kind of slow down your future growth. Trading your own personal account, if you take money as you go, it will take you that much longer to actually grow the account. But because pro firms give you more capital, the better you trade, and the more consistent you are. This is not anything that hurts. Right?

As you continue to grow your accounts, you're simply going to be taking, profits. So in your personal journey, we assume that you're going to take that you're going to make 4% per month. In this account, we're only issued 2. Right? So half, the performance.

If you made 4% here, this will definitely be a lot faster, but we want to show you even slower growth to show you the difference between the two methods. Right? So only 2% per month in this account. By year 1, you're at 80,000. Year and a half, 15 months into the program, you're at a 160,000.

Right? So what took you 5 years here will take you just over 1. And at this point, every time you hit 10%, you continue to double your account. Right? By year 5, in this specific example Well, probably not not even 5.

By year 3a half or so, you're gonna be trading $4,000,000 account, which is the cap for the Fivers, the firm I'm using for this example. And this is the money that you will have taken home by that time. Right? This doesn't even go to year 5, but by year 5, you will have made quite a decent chunk for yourself. Again, assuming you're making only half of what we assumed in the other example, you're only risking 10% of what you risk of your own money.

And the journey still gets so, so accelerated. This is the power of prop firms. Right? This is the power of trading other people's money. That's why it's so important to understand that just by shifting your capital, trading smaller lot sizes, aiming smaller per trade will make you so much more money in the end.

Hopefully, this kind of example kinda helps put things in perspective for you. Alright. Let's go back to the presentation. So this was the scaling comparison. Now let's try and take a little bit more of a holistic view of everything, and how it fits in the bigger picture.

So adapting your strategy will have its challenges. Okay? Once you head out to practice, here's the challenges that you're going to face. 1st will be finding the right firm. Right?

If you've never looked into them before, you're the first time you Google ProFirms, you're gonna see that there's hundreds of them. Okay? Not all of them are good. Let's let's leave it at that. It's vital, though, that you may that you select the legitimate and the reputable prop firm and that the strategy of trade is compatible with the firm you're looking to trade with.

If anything is not clear, refer to the Funded Trader curriculum. Part 2 is where we break down how to select your prop firm. Understanding their rules. What we strive for here is to make sure that they don't have any rules that will limit, undermine, or disqualify the strategy that you trade as well as, any rules that kind of hurt your future growth as a pro form trader. Right?

Not all firms out there offer scaling as generous as the one you just saw in this example. So finding the right firm with a proper future outlook is going to be essential. Once again, if anything is not clear, refer to funded trader curriculum part 2. Then we'll dive deeper into reducing lock sizes. Okay?

This is going to be a challenge at first. It might add an extra step to your trading unless you're already, doing something similar, as using the position size calculator to to calculate your lot sizes if you're trading a small account already. But follow the steps here in the example on how to use the position size calculator. With practice, this will become second nature. Mindset shift.

This comes with the smaller position size. Right? Realistically, I believe this might be the biggest challenge, the biggest barrier to most of you. It sure was for me. Right?

It felt like I'm not going to make any money doing this, and it took a lot of time until I finally committed to it, and managed to break away from my habit of trading bigger lot sizes. But as soon as I did, it was apparent how much smoother the process becomes once you commit to the small lot size, at least initially. Long term mentality is something we talk a lot in the academy when it comes to trading. 1st, when you learn, making sure that you guys understand this is not gonna be a get rich quick scheme that happens overnight. Right?

But this is also the biggest difference between trading a pro form account and trading your own account. Right? As you saw, the this the pace with which your account grows and scales when you trade with a prop firm is tremendously accelerated. Right? It shortens your journey between start and actually relying on this trading for income tremendously.

This makes all the difference, right, as it increases the the speed with which you get to that point. Your only goal is to be patient early on in the process and not blowing the account up. Once this clicks for you, patience and, you know, trading smaller sizes should not be a problem. Lastly, from the trader course, shameless plug for my own work, This is where all the questions that you might have when it comes to prop firms and how to trade with them are answered specifically in the second section of the course. So if this is at all interesting or if you have any questions after going through this particular module, take a look there.

Take the time to go through that training. That's where these questions will be answered. Once you've done all this, you will be a master, and you should be trading a 6 figure account. Couple of things to keep in mind. Right?

Let's put it all into perspective. The goal of this module is not to teach you a trading strategy. Right? The goal of this module is to help you adapt the strategy that you have already learned, and make sure that you can trade it within a pro form account. Right?

How to adapt it. Now once you have mastered the strategy, this is what we talked about today, and this is what the practice projects will help you do. Right? Adaptation of the strategy you already learned. How do we do it?

Well, by shifting into a long term mindset in trading prop firm accounts, reducing our risk, and accepting the fact that we'll be taking smaller trades relative to the account size. Next step is going to be to select an actual prop firm, pick a challenge, and start the process of getting funded. So what stage are you at? Well, if you're a beginner, you're gonna know that because you probably think pro firms are all scammers and shouldn't even bother thinking about it. You don't feel it's real.

And, you know, if it's not your own money at risk, trading doesn't feel the same to you. You might think that trading such small sizes is a waste of time. How are you supposed to make any money doing this? And you might also feel like trading is, you know, hard as this. Why bother jumping through all these hoops on top of it?

Once you start getting into this process, thinking a little bit more about it, you're going to start feel feeling a little bit different. You're going to start to see the bigger picture, right? You start to understand the time and money that this process saves you in the end. And you might still struggle to kind of play small trades and stick to that, the risk parameters. But, you know, you keep working on it.

You keep the greeting check and you follow your rules. And with practice, of course, the more you do it, the faster you get to the point where you actually get it. Right? Not only you follow the rules, but you also understand that these rules make you a better trader anyways. You understand the opportunity of trading such amounts of capital.

And the only thing you don't understand is why anybody would trade their own money when they can do this instead, because that's how I feel. Let's summarize everything, for you guys before you start trying to practice this for yourselves. Right? If you feel that anything is unclear, make sure you go back, review the module again. It will be recorded for you.

So any questions that come up, definitely jump into one of my sessions and ask away. Don't move forward unless everything here is crystal clear. Okay? Couple key points that you need to remember. First things first, you need to verify that your strategy aligns with the prompt firm of your choice.

Ensure that there is no executions rules execution rules or restrictions that interfere with your strategy, and make sure that the instruments that you trade are allowed by the pro form of your choice. Learn how to reduce risk and adapt your risk management to prevent account depletion, learn how to calculate position size based on the pips and risk percentage that you need to be trading, consider starting with the lower risk per trade, such as half a percent per trade or even a quarter of a percent per trade and scaling over time from there. Always keep in mind that trading smaller lot sizes with a pro firm can easily be more profitable than trading a larger role lot size with a personal account, as the account size will be vastly larger with a pro form. Here's what when things get fun for you guys. It's time for you to go and practice.

As you go through the practice projects that we have for you, keep asking yourself, am I following the rules, or the instructions properly? How can I practice even more to really dominate this? Are there any areas of weakness that are showing? And as always, please remember to share your project with your fellow students in the Legacy Student Hangout room. Now the chat.

These are gonna be uploaded along with the recording, so you'll have access to this. But still, let me know if this is large enough for you guys to see. Here we go. So this is your practice project. The goal of this project is for you guys to get funded.

Okay? This is gonna be something that will take some work. But by the end of this, you should be trading a 6 figure account. I know it's quite the the promise, but wait for it. Lots of work involved.

Okay? Materials that you're gonna need this, copy of this template, strategy, copy of this project as well as strategy adaptation project template. We'll take a look into that next. You're going to need TradingView or any other, demo account or paper trading account that you can use. You need to select an evaluation account that you would like to pass.

And if you have any questions about how to do anything, relative to prop firms, is go ahead and take a look at the Fund the Trader course. Okay. So what are the steps we're going to need to do? Pick a challenge. First things first, you're going to take a little bit of time to research a few prop firms and select the challenge that you would like to pass.

You're going to write down your plan, practice in a demo account, and, finally, when you're ready, you're going to follow the steps outlined in your template to actually get funded. Once you pass the real evaluation, definitely create a post in the academy and share with your fellow students. Now the link here, strategy adaptation course, takes you to this document. This is where the rubber meets the road. K?

You're going to use this template to prepare for your funding challenge. Complete all areas. Make sure you're following the recommendations provided within this module. Do not skip any steps. Okay?

Every component here is very important. And we have really taken a lot of time to map this out for you so that by the end of this exercise, you hold a funded account. Okay? So first, you're going to pick a challenge. Go out there, pick a firm.

Right? Research a few. Pick a firm and select the challenge that you would like to pass. Okay? This will gonna be this is going to be your target.

Again, if you have any questions, there's plenty of links to the funded trader curriculum. Answer the questions below once you have selected the challenge. Okay? What is the name of the challenge? You're going to link, paste the link to the challenge itself or other to refer for others to refer to.

And tell us why this particular challenge, what is it that you like over the other products offered by this firm or other firms in general? Once you have selected the challenge, you're going to break it down. Okay? Challenge specifics. You have a table here that you can use, right, to fill out all the components that you see here.

You need to fill out those values. You need to really understand all the rules and restrictions within that, challenge of your choice. This is an example. Okay? I'm using one of the Fiverr's accounts here, and I'm answering everything for you to give you kind of, like, a a working example of what this should look like.

Don't copy it. This will be different for any firm or any different account or challenge that you select. Right? So make sure you understand it. It's there for your reference, but you need to fill out this portion.

K? Once you've done that, you're going to make your actual trading adjustments to your strategy. What you need to do is write out the details of exactly how you're going to adjust your strategy so that you're able to pass the evaluation of your choice. Right? So answer all these questions.

You have examples. When you're actually going through this document, delete the examples, and just provide your answers. Right? Once you get past this stage, this is a recommendation of what I would do to address my risk management within here. You can you can use it or you can write your own adaptation.

But what you what you're really doing here is writing a trading plan. Okay? How you're going to approach trading with the new risk parameters as explained by reducing the risk per trade and so forth. We want everything to be detailed. We want everything to be thought out so that it's easier for you to stick to once you have it, you know, written down and put in place.

One, example here is, right, we're going to start with only risking 25% per trade. Half of that, if we're trading correlated pairs, such as 2 euro pairs at the same time. But focus on this for a second. Quarter percent risk per trade initially. Dynamic risk management.

Right? Any planned adjustments. Well, in my case, if I start with quarter risk per trade, I will trade this until I'm halfway through my challenge. If my target is 10%, once I'm at 5, I will need I will allow myself to adjust. And at this point on, I will trade.

I will double my risk. Right? I will start trading half a percent per trade. Why? Because now I have additional 5% buffer.

Right? I'm not at risk of necessarily blowing the account in a series of bad trades or, you know, losing trades and so forth. I will only maintain this. Right? I will only maintain this for as long as I am having this buffer.

If I lose half of this 5%, then I will revert back to trading quarter percent risk per trade. Something along those lines is what I would recommend, but make sure that the strategy of that is something that works for you. Risk calculations. Based on the value of the account, these numbers will be different. Right?

So for my example, since I'm gonna be trading quarter percent risk per trade, I'm gonna be risking 50 doll $50 per trade on a $20,000 account. Once I go up to, half a percent, this will be a $100 per trade. Alright? So whatever the account size of the evaluation that you choose, make sure you adapt those numbers to to work out the math of how much you should be losing per per trade or or risking per trade in dollar terms. This was the example.

There is a table here for you to do your own math. If you want to break it down, make any changes, or split into 3 sections, if you add tab, click tab button on the very last column, it'll give you additional rows. So this is all the prep before you actually start practicing. Right? Now that you have everything written down, everything planned out, you're going to practice in a demo account.

K? This could be an actual demo trading account, or you could just be counting and tracking your trades in TradingView. Doesn't matter how you do it, so long you're diligent about the process. The goal is to take your new risk management and imagine yourself trading the actual challenge. Right?

Place trades following your strategy for as long as it takes until you hit the mark. For my account up here, the target is 10%. So I will be trading a demo account until I make 10% in that demo account before proceeding with an Enerio challenge. This is what we're asking you for here. K?

Whether you're trading in TradingView and keeping your keeping track of your trades in just a spreadsheet or whether you're using, an actual demo trading account until you make that 10%. You're not actually paying for a challenge until you fulfill this. Okay? If you cannot pass a demo challenge like this, you're probably not ready to pass a real challenge as well. So no need putting money at risk.

Simply stick to this process until you're comfortable with it and succeed, with that milestone. Once you have succeeded with this challenge criteria within a demo account, right, once you hit your target, you're gonna be ready to go ahead and proceed with the real challenge. So the question is, have you succeeded? Did you trade place as many trades as you need to hit your 10%. Once your answer is yes, you're ready to proceed.

This is an example of how you should be tracking your trades. Okay? You can use this demo trades lock as you're going through your challenge. Or if you are actually trading, like, an actual demo trading account in MetaTrader or something like that, then you can simply use your trade lock from there. But once you're done with this part, if you're using your own log, delete this table, right, and paste your trade log here.

Or if you prefer to use the one that we are providing, simply, use this document and fill in the information as you go. These are just examples, right, of trades that you might have taken. Right? Just for you just for me to show you how they would be different. Right?

85% stop loss on your trade only calls for 0.6. Let's say you won this one. Next trade is pound yen. Bigger loss bigger stop loss, but since it's a yen pair, a little bit more margin calls for the same lot size. What you want to track here is the account gain, whether you do it in percentage terms or dollar value terms.

Right? This is where I want to hit that 10% or on the $20,000 account. I'll be tracking this until I end up making $2,000, at which point I will have completed the demo challenge. Right? And I'll be ready for the real challenge.

So this will take you some time, but don't rush through it. It's important. No need to put money at risk unless you can actually do this part, you know, demo or a paper trading like this. Once you have done it, then you have the green light to actually pay for a challenge and follow the same steps that you have followed to pass the demo challenge or trading your trading view to simply pass the challenge to get funded. You're still going to trade your lock, track your your trades using the live trading lock here.

Again, if you need more, if you need more rows, more columns, simply use the tab key here in the end, and you're going to do this until you get funded. So, once you have completed all of this, and this will likely take you weeks months, guys, so don't rush through this. But definitely once you have completed it, share your success with the with the rest of the academy. And, as you go through this process, definitely ask questions, jump into any of the sessions that I do. Happy to support you as you as you're on this journey.

So you are not alone when you're a part of the academy. Alright. I've been talking for 45 minutes straight, so I'm gonna shut up now and let you guys ask some questions. I hope this was entertaining. It's recorded, so it will be uploaded for you along with the resources provided here.

So you have access to all of it, or you will in the next couple hours. Spend some time with it. Give it a thought. And if you have any questions, definitely come back and ask. I don't think you can open a video here, Kurt.

This is meant to be training that will be uploaded. So, you can ask questions in the chat. I'll address those, but you won't be able to go camera on. Graham asks, do these terms firms want you to be active, or can you trade sedately? Different firms will have different, different options on this.

Right? Most firms will have will like you to maintain some activity. But if it's a legitimate firm, so long you're, let's say, I'm going on a vacation, I'm not gonna be trading for a month. So long you let them know they'll have processes to to handle that. But at the same time, keep in mind that they they might make money off of active traders.

Right? If you just tie their capital and put one capital and put one trade every couple of months, you're probably gonna run into travel. So most of them would like you to be active. Right? So there's there's there should be specific rules around that.

What would be your benefit to go to a prop firm if I can fund my own 7 figure account? I mean, let's say you have a 7 figure account. Let's say you could put $1,000,000 at risk. First of all, that's $1,000,000 risk for you. Right?

Why would you do that instead of spending $1,000 and putting someone else's money at risk? That would be my question. Just from an investment perspective, if if they can put the risk ahead for you, why would you risk your own money? Alan is asking, oh, you're already trading a demo account, awaiting the point where you get to the 10%. Good luck, Alan.

You've been working so diligently. I I don't doubt for one second. Hopefully, the training here will help you. But keep up the good work. You'll get there.

You're thinking this will be an eternity away? It's really not. Okay? Like you saw, even if you aim to make 2% per month, this will only make this will only take you a year and a half. Right?

So, yes, if you add the demo trading on top of it, that definitely adds a little bit of time to the process. But if this is the first time you're going through it, you definitely want to be, you know, sure before committing. Are you especially seeing a few instruments to understand their behavior better? Julian, a lot of I I trade forex almost exclusively, a little bit of in in this as as well, but I focus a lot on the US dollar pairs, but I trade all of the major forex pairs. The the whole idea of this particular module today is that it doesn't really matter what it is I trade.

Right? This this knowledge that we're trying to pass along here is meant to to help you adapt any particular strategy that you're trading. Doesn't matter whether you trade the way I do or you you trade like Simon Alex said. It's that's not important. What's important is that you master the strategy.

You're consistently profitable trading any of the strategies taught here in the academy. And then use this knowledge, this methodology taught here to adapt your trading to fit the risk requirements that a prop firm will enforce on you. Okay? It's not about how I trade. It's just about adapting any real strategy out there.

Good is saying I was going to join the Fivers with their Black Friday, but I have no credit card. Yeah. There's credit or debit is fine for them, But I know that some countries have laws around credit debit cards. I'm not quite sure how to help you there. But so when you have a bank account and a debit card, then then you're fine.

It doesn't have to be a credit card. I think those are rules for most platforms out there. Any any questions about anything that we talked through today, guys? Have you used position size calculator? Is that something that was completely out of the blue?

Or have you seen it before? Any questions specifically towards the the content of today's, session? I'm saying I'm starting to use the fast track knowledge with Simon to utilize my demo accounts, still using small lot sizes until I get to around 3%. Very good, Alan. In my example here, I I said 5%, but at the end of the day, it's whatever it is you're comfortable with.

Just make sure you have that extra buffer before you start increasing your risk. Right? Any strategy out there can easily have, you know, a couple of bad trades in a row. That's not necessarily saying the strategy is not right. It's just a part of trading.

So having that extra buffer will spare you a lot of stress and worry down the road. Okay, Julian has used lot sizes before or lot size calculator. And as it says, I've seen it before. No idea what numbers to put in. Okay.

Well, how hopefully, this training kinda helped you, but play around with it a little bit. Once you put in a couple of trades in there, and try to figure out a couple lot sizes, it it gets pretty pretty easy. It's very straightforward once you give it a go. Any other questions, guys? Anything else that is on your mind after going through this project?

How many of you are excited to take to to trade micro lots? It's asking, how do you know what lot sizes? Well, that's the whole idea. Right? The the calculator tells you what size you need to be trading.

Let's take another look at this. So every time you you go into any trade, this is the process you want to to follow. Okay? Let's say I have a trade that I wanna trade on your dollar. Let's say I flagged you guys are with Simon now.

Let's say I flagged a w bottom or an m top. Right? So I'm gonna take a look at that trade that is potentially setting up. And let's say I'm trading I don't know. Let's do some odd number.

30 let's say my account is $35,000 currently. I want to risk half a percent on that trade. I look at my setup, and the setup calls for, I don't know, 45 pips, stop loss. Right? This is literally step by step what you need to put into the calculator before it gives you the result, your account size, the amount of risk you wanna take on that trade in percentage terms relative to the account size, what the stop loss in is in pips, and what the pair is.

Right? You're only going to take one position. Right? You're not gonna split into few. And when you hit calculate, it'll tell you exactly, the lot size you need to be trading on that particular setup.

Right? The the 0.5% risk equates a $175. To take that on a 45 to risk that amount on a 45 pips stop loss on your dollar, you need to be trading 0.39 lot size on that particular trade. So play with it, Rozy. Once you put in a couple of those, it it becomes very easy and straightforward.

So definitely, definitely practice it a little bit. Chris is asking what would be a realistic time path to get funded to 4,000,000? There are the example I showed you is as realistic as it gets. You can have it within a year or 2. It's more so the assumption of how much you make per month.

Right? If you consistently make 2% per month, then you'll be there within a year and a half just going through the process like I showed you. If, obviously, nothing is as straightforward. Right? Some months, you might make a little more.

Some months, you might even be negative at the end of the day. So that's where the variation will come from. But so long you stick to what you're doing and you net 2% per month, you'll be there within a year or 2. Ginny is making it a goal to get funded in 2024. I love it.

What happens if you blow your Proform account? What happens, Rosie, is you you have to start over. This is why another reason why if you needed more reasons why you should be trading Proform money instead of your own is because they lose the money at the end, not you. Right? Let's say, I start with $1,000.

I get funded. And 6 months down the road, I've taken some money. They've taken some money, and I blow up the account, which has happened to me plenty. So what happens then? You don't owe the money back.

You simply pay for another challenge and start over. As simple as that. Yes. It it cost you a little bit more. Right?

You need to pay another evaluation fee, and you've wasted all this time to get funded and grow the account once. So you have to start over. That's the downside of it. But in the end of the day, the actual capital at risk is theirs, not you. No.

That's that's part of their, of the proposition. They risk their money. So the only amount that you have at risk is the money you have paid for the evaluation. Nope. So when you stick to their rules, you can keep doing evaluations for as long as you want to.

They're never gonna turn you away. Is that all the questions you guys have? Come on. We have 2 more minutes. Hit me with something.

Most pro firms, Rosie, take a percentage of your profits. Right? Let's say you get funded, with a $100,000 right? On every top on every dollar you make, they'll keep, let's say, 20%. So by you making money, they take a share of your profits.

Most prop firms, as you continue to scale, they give you more and more money, and they keep less and less of it. For firms like the Fivers, once you are proven once you've proven yourself and you're a successful trader, what they'll actually do on the back end is they will they will copy your trades, and they'll even put more leverage on it. So every time you put a $1,000 trade on the back office, they'll put the same trade times 5 or times 10. So as you make money, they make even more once you are, you know, a proven trader with them. So that's how they make their money.

It doesn't have anything to do with you. But initially, as you're still going through the fight, the the first couple of stages, usually, they keep a percentage of your profits to kind of balance their risk on you. Garrett is asking, if I remember correctly, the biggest amount to start with is 250 1,000. That's the that's the boot camp challenge for for the fibers. But again, Gertrude, it really doesn't matter the starting point.

What matters is just sticking to the process, whether you start with 40000 or 2.50. It's only a matter of couple of months once you've got once you get to that point. Jaden, can you use a trade copier to operate? Yes. You can.

Most pro firms don't have a problem with that. So you can trade both your account and theirs at the same time. And, actually, if you go back to your student progression plan, that's kind of the method that the academy kind of calls for you guys. At some point, tap into the pro form money, have that as an income stream. Right?

Trade their account along with your own. Take the profits from their account and put a portion of that profit into your own trading account so that you can grow it even faster. So, yeah, trade copiers are allowed. Most of them have rules and restrictions about high frequency tradings and things like that, but that's not something we talk about in the academy. So nothing for you to worry about.

And he's asking, I think, mentally will be a big thing for him to overcome is to work for a boss. I don't like following the rules and I don't make myself. I mean, that's, that's definitely a consideration, Garth, but at the same time, you probably have the rules in one shape or form or another anyways, right? The same proper the same proper rules that you're talking about, even if they're outlined by somebody else, are probably a part of your trading strategy already. The only real adjustment for most people will be trading smaller lot size, which once you get used to it, it's really not that big a deal.

Alright, you guys. I hope that was fun. Go back, watch it some more. And if you have any questions, definitely hop into one of my sessions and ask away. Isn't it more difficult mindset wise to take someone to trade someone else's money?

I don't know. I think the difficulty comes from being from it being actually a little bit easier. Honestly, one of the biggest challenges I've had to kind of pass going through this process is the fact that it doesn't feel as painful losing someone else's money as losing your own. Right? So this is something you're going to experience at some point if you're trading with PropForms.

It's a real time. Right? When you trade a demo account initially, you might feel like, well, that's not real money. It's like, I can take this trade even if the setup is not ideal. Same with, you know, when you're actually funded.

It's it's their money at risk, their capital at risk. So right. Why should I be overly worried? But you really want to treat it as if it's your own money on the line because if you're adapting your strategy and kind of, you know, go going halfway with your risk management, it will hurt you in the end, and it will cost you some money and definitely will cost you time. So treat it as if you're trading your own money, and you'll be just fine.

Deniszlaff, thank you so much. I'm gonna get diving in right now. Really, really good stuff. I'm glad. I'm glad you enjoyed the job, Tom.

Thank you everybody for joining me today, and I hope this is useful. Definitely dive into the project. It's a beast to go through, but once you do, you'll be a funded trader like me, and you'll be making some money. Beautiful stuff. Bye, everybody.

See you. See you in the academy.
