
Well, hello, everyone. Thank you all for hopping in. We do appreciate you guys. Thank you, Jonathan, for the awesome introduction. And before I waste too much time rambling around, let's dive right into it.

I hope everybody can see, the slides. Again, Denis Lav Dantev. That's who I am. Why the funded trader? It's because trading funded accounts is what I do.

I have been doing it for a bit, and that's what I'll be talking to you about over the next couple of weeks. A little bit about me and who I am. I am a Bulgarian born and raised here, lived about 20 years in Bulgaria before I moved to the US where I met my wife and now have 3, a little 3, I'm sorry, 2 kids, 35 years old, 2 little demons that never stopped running around the house and pissing me off. It's awesome. What can I tell you about me?

I love spending time with my family. I love watching some of the movies or TV shows with the wife whenever kids are finally asleep, which is which is always way too late if you ask me. Love doing jujitsu. I used to do a lot more of that before the kids, but before the kids, but, you know, trying to get back into that as much as I can. Having the occasional beer with friends or just hanging out, it's always a good time.

For those of you that know anything about Freemasonry, I do that too. I'm one of those people that controls the world behind the scenes and all that. So with my buddies there, we do a lot of charitable work, which is something I am always eager to get into and it's been amazing. Used to reading some good books ever since I get the kids. Every time I open a book, I just fall asleep.

So that's not really on my hobby list at this point. But you know, just like any other guy, I have some big and bold dreams for myself, for my family, my community, and for you, the people that I'll be teaching and working with over the next couple of weeks and hopefully even longer. I believe in giving back and I believe that when you're successful and have the power to share that success and, you know, teach and inspire others, it's kind of your obligation to do so. And it's what we'll be doing here. A little bit about where my story began.

As I mentioned earlier, I grew up in Bulgaria. Nothing, nothing much to say about Bulgaria. I grew up in a modest family. We've had enough, but not really much about that. I didn't have any prior education in financial matters.

I was only taught how to save money as growing up, you know, and that meant do everything yourself, never pay for anything or anyone to do something. You could do When, when I got to the States a little bit later in life is really when things started changing for me. How I went to the States is a story in its own. One day I just decided that Bulgaria is not for me. I had been to the US once for just a few months.

I loved it there. So when I get another opportunity to travel to the US, I just packed a bag of clothes, $150 in my pocket. And I told my folks, you know, take a good picture on the way out because you won't see me for a while. I was determined to really give it a good shot and make a life for myself, outside of Bulgaria. It wasn't easy.

I juggled multiple part time jobs for years thinking that the harder I work, the more successful I'll be in, the faster I'll get ahead. But, you know, after a few years, they didn't really come to fruition. I felt just like running in place, you know, rolling down the ferret wheel, never getting much ahead of anything. Time was passing by and I was, you know, going along. But things were moving very slow.

The more I stayed there, got some experience, tried different things. I started working fewer jobs, and the things that I did were a bit nicer and easier. I would make a little bit more money each year, which was great. Slowly, I was getting a bit further and further ahead each year. But thinking back, that was never the, you know, the success that I had in mind.

It didn't feel like that big win that I set out to to achieve. I was barely able to save any money, still practically living paycheck to paycheck. Every time I brought a little bit more money over the course of the year, expenses also kind of rose to match that. So it never felt like, okay, I can, you know, take an extra trip this year, go do something nice. Wasn't a bad light.

But again, it wasn't the big success that I had envisioned. When things started changing, is, you know, about, I don't know, 8 years ago or so, I had been in the US for a couple of years already. I met my wife at the time, girlfriend. We got married and whatnot. I got my US residency resolved, so at least I didn't have to juggle visa statuses all the time.

And I set set out to to get a career for myself. I was thinking AI initially. Not not AI, IT. But the first job I landed was a low level low entry level life insurance sales job. Hated the job, loved the finance industry.

I didn't last in the job. I quit after, like, 6 weeks or so, even though I won their first in in my 1st month, I I won their top salesperson award, but, I hated doing sales. What I loved was learning about financial instruments and how people can leverage them to to really get into a better financial position. So I started doing more of that. I educated myself.

I became a financial advisor in the US. And, you know, the more I learned about finance, the more I realized that the people that I had looked up to around me that I considered successful and established, didn't really know much about finance anyway. I talked to them about the things I was getting into the, the things I was learning and they were just scratching their head thinking, and that's not for me. So stuff like investing and whatnot was a mystery to most people. And this was happening in the US where 7 or 8 out of 10 people around me were in the similar position.

They didn't really know anything about finance, how things work, why you should take advantage of them and whatnot. This is when I realized that, I can really make a career for myself in the financial services industry and combine my passion for working with people, helping others, educating them on financial matters, and make a nice living for myself as well. So that's what I've been doing for the past 6 years or so. I am still a practicing financial advisor in the US. So basically, my 9 to 5 is teaching people about the slow and steady, but somewhat predictable grind of working 40, 50 hours a week for 40 or 50 years, hoping to save enough, invest, and retire so that you can live comfortably for the remainder of your life.

Sadly, at that point, most people are in poor health, don't really get to do much, don't really get to live. Let me make this clear, guys. This is not what we will be talking about in this course at all. Our focus here will be financial freedom. So let's talk a little bit about what that means.

Well, for some people, the 9 to 5, 50 year grind is, you know, what they look forward to. It's predictable, doesn't require much risk on their part, I guess. If that's what they want, that's what they get. Not a problem. For me, I'd rather not do that.

Love what I do, but no, thank you. I'd rather live a, you know, a real life and do the things I love. So what we'll be learning here is how to really make your dreams come true by trading a few hours a day or a few hours a week. And with that activity, provide for yourself more income than you need to achieve everything you ever wanted. So I hope you guys are ready.

I'm excited for this. Now why do I get to be the person talking to you about any of these things? Well, first of all, I can relate. Like, I feel like I am one of you guys. I started from scratch.

Didn't really know anything about trading, finance, or any of these things, didn't start from money or anything like that. So I kinda made my own way, and I think I have plenty of experience to share with you all. As far as trading goes, I'm so passionate. It borders on addiction. If you ask my wife, it's it's clinical at this point even though she never listens to me.

So I don't know why she's complaining. As far as my experience with trading specifically, I've spent the majority of my free time over the past 2 or 3 years staring at charts, any waking seconds that I wasn't running after the kids. So I have a lot of experience to share with you guys. And here's the kicker. Right?

I trade almost exclusively Profform accounts, and I don't see why any other person would trade any other way. By the end of this course, you are going to understand why, I promise. A little bit about me, as we totally transparent, with you guys, I don't have some kick ass strategy that is right 99.9% percent of the time that you can just set it and forget it. Nothing like that. As you can see, this is my average account.

Its success rate is about 70%, 65 to 75, somewhere in that range. Nothing crazy, somewhat average. Right? But it's good stats. This is a list of all the challenges that passed with the Fivers, which is the firm that I trade with, over the past 5 years.

Yeah. There's quite a few badges there. Done a lot. So, yeah, 55, 54 times over the past 2 years. It's not bad.

Right? Once you have completed this course, your life will change. You'll be able to do all of these things yourself. I have never been a materialistic person myself, but it makes me incredibly happy, you know, to make sure that I can provide my family, my kids with the things that make them happy. Sometimes maybe spoiling them a little bit too much, but it is what it is.

You know, being able to travel a little bit more vacation at better destinations and maybe a little bit more often to I'm in Bulgaria right now. So I'm not doing this at home. I'm visiting my family for 2 weeks here. Taking vacations like that is not something I could do years ago. Now it's practically a manual plan.

So it's really great. I spend my work hours helping people, you know, plan for the slow and steady grind of working their entire lives. But ever since I started my career as a financial advisor, I already knew that that's not what I wanted to do. So what if you didn't have to do that either? What if you didn't have to waste the next couple of decades working in a cubicle or something like that, but instead, you could spend that time doing the things you love with the people you care about?

By the time you truly master concepts I'm about to teach you, you'll be able to transform your life and experience true freedom on so many levels. Financially, sure. That's an easy one. Right? We'll be talking about earning a great living by living by trading.

So financial freedom is an easy guess. But what about others? What about other levels of freedom? What about health? Has anyone ever told you, hey, you know, it's it should be good for you to exercise more, take walks, hikes, go biking, go on vacation more often than you do.

Every time someone says something like that to me, I'm like, when? When can I do that? I'm working 10 hours a day. And before and after that, I have to pick up the kids and feed them, get them to bed. By the time they're in bed, I'm crushed.

I don't have the desire to do anything but sit on the couch and watch the TV before I fall asleep. Right? It's like, when do you have time for anything like that? When you learn the concept in this course, you end up with more time than you can ever imagine so that you can do the things you always wanted to, and you can really look after yourself better. The time has really come folks to get off the ferret wheel and start living life on your own terms.

So let's talk a little bit more about that. What does happiness mean to you? Having the time to do the things you like whenever you want to. No more stressing about work. No more commute.

No more deadlines. No more time and effort wasted on people that never appreciated it anyway. Having the time and the ability to really take care of yourself, of yourself, body and soul. Having the, you know, happiness, the freedom to to sleep more, hang out with friends, try and learn new things that you never thought you would even have the time or be brave enough to try before. This is all the characteristic of true freedom as I see it, and they're all within reach.

Trading, when you talk about it, can often be a a very lonely experience. Most traders that sit in front of the charts all day don't really have anyone to share that with or, you know, a community to belong to. But this is not the case here. You have been fortunate enough to join the academy. And the academy is specifically designed as a living and breathing organism, a community of like minded individuals who are on the same journey as you.

So we'll never be on your own truly. The educators as well as your fellow students are always there to share their knowledge and experience, their success stories, as well as their struggles. So you're part of all of this now, and we're all here for you. The time might even come down the road should you wish to, when you will be one of those people sharing their success stories, sharing useful tips and their experience with the new students joining the academy and, you know, tutoring them on their way to successfully becoming traders. There's nothing more rewarding than sharing your success and helping others achieve the same.

So let's talk a little bit about where you are right now. And I'm sorry if I'm guessing a little bit, but I'm thinking that it's pretty much where I was a few years ago. So tell me if any of those sound familiar and stick a smiley face or, you know, been there comment in the in the chat box for me. Let's see. You thought or, you know, you were told that trading would be the easiest thing you ever did.

You would be rich overnight. It doesn't really require any time or effort on your part. It's just the easiest thing you can ever do. It would cost you nothing to get started. It's just snap your fingers and there you are.

You would make money right away. Even with the smallest accounts, you can make a living. It's like quit your job today. Maybe you tried signal services that promised you guaranteed wins if you follow their trade signals. Or you tried online courses promising you success if you use their proprietary trading strategies, or that's my personal favorite favorite proprietary indicators that are 90% right.

It's magic things. Maybe you tried different brokers. You ended up losing trades due to unexplained spread spikes or because your trades were never filled, never executed. Or maybe you even tried funding challenges and you kept failing over and over for this reason or that you change prop firms to try, you know, different prop firm and ended up with the same experience. They're kind of almost always the same.

If this has been your experience, folks, I can only tell you that you're not alone. We've all been there. I've been there. Don't fear not. There's light ahead.

I know this looking back at something like this can be a little back vaccine. Nobody likes dwelling on their unsuccessful attempts at this thing or that. So take a deep breath. Let's look forward together for a moment and see what we have here for you in this course. So here we are today.

This is the beginning. We're just going to go through an introduction. Basically, you get to know me. Maybe I get to know a little bit about you. And what we hope to achieve by the end of the first session is to really get down to what drives us and what inspires us to even get into training to begin with.

Starting with the 2nd module, we'll go over a quick win strategies, a piece of my trading style that you can start practicing immediately so that you can get accustomed to some of the things I do. And also because this strategy will teach you some of the concepts that we'll be using later on when we dive into my core strategy. This will be part 3. Jumping ahead. Part 3 is the strategy that I use for almost all the challenges I do.

It's a little bit complex for people that have never done something similar, so it will be broken down into modules that you can absorb piece by piece. And, you make sure that you understand everything I do from top to bottom. We'll go into depth into every aspect of it from pre trade analysis to configure confirmations and finally, execution and trade management. I will show you live examples, and I'll make sure that you understand the ins and outs of what it is I do so that you can do it too. Finally, once we have mastered the strategy, we'll go into the universe of proprietary trading firms.

It is a little bit crazy out there. So we'll be talking about different firms, different funding challenges, and we'll be learning how to actually make a living out of trading. We'll talk about, the different red flags and what to kind of avoid in general. I'll be talking a little bit about the firm that I use, but there's others out there that we can explore as well. Once we dive into the different challenges that I have mostly been working with the past couple of years with the fibers, I'll break them down for you so that you understand the different options to funding that you have or that they offer because they are slightly different than some might fit your personality better than others.

Make sure you understand how you can apply different strategies that you might already know and you might have already been trading and make sure that you understand how to tweak them and tailor them so that you can actually use your own strategy to pass funding challenges. Alright. Finally, in the fast in the last part, last module, we'll talk about scaling your accounts once you get funded, maintaining your capital, and growing it as you as you go along so that you comfortably make a living out of trading. Once you have absorbed and mastered everything in this curriculum, you will have the tools to start a funding challenge, earn the right to trade 100 of 1,000 of dollars of prop firms money, and make a great living, risking just a fraction of what you normally would of your own money if you were trading your own account. How to be successful?

There's a few things to keep in mind as you go through this curricular, curriculum. The very first one is the one I hated the most when I was kind of new in this journey. So I'm sure you'll feel the same, but it is very important. You have to be patient, folks. Alright?

It will take some time to go over all this content. So arm yourself with patience. This is true regardless of whether you're watching the sessions live or you're going through the recordings after the curriculum has already been completed and published in the academy. It takes time to truly learn it all, practice it, and make it your own. So don't rush.

Have a long term mentality. Attend the live sessions that we'll be doing even after the course has been published. Always ask questions. Never hesitate. This is all new to most of us when we first start doing it.

So it will never be silly of you to ask a question. It will never make you look bad. It's quite the opposite. It always speeds up how quickly you were. So always attend the live sessions.

Ask as many questions as you can. As you're going through this education material, keep a long term mentality. Learning to trade is not a race. Nobody's I know that in the industry, they always promise you to, you know, be successful overnight, but this is not the reality of things. Just like any other trade, it'll take time for you to really learn it all, practice it, and get to the point where you can actually leverage it to make an income set.

Don't rush. Whether it takes another week or 2, it's not a big deal. Finally, it is imperative to develop the right habits. It is so hard to really break a habit once you've really internalized it. So take your time, follow the instructions, and don't look for shortcuts.

Trust me, it will save you quite a bit of time along the way. This list that you guys see here in front of you, know, it's not something that I Googled. If I was starting today and decided to learn to trade, I wish someone would sit me down and tell me just this. It'll take time and money, hard work, and so much frustration if you don't do it right. It would take a patient and committed person hours and hours of practice and made me understand that it would be a while before I saw any real money in return.

The list above is practically a summary of all the things I did wrong, and I wish I did not. So trust me when I tell you that all of these things will hold you back. So it will cost you time and money. Save yourself the pain and trust the process. Let us show you the right way, and remember that time, patience, and perseverance will accomplish all things.

Let's highlight some of the issues that you're likely to face along the way. As we begin to trade and later as we grow as traders and scale our accounts, we'll have constant and new challenges and barriers to overcome. Here's some of the bigger ones that kind of stand out to me. Finding the time. This is a big one, especially as we're first learning and starting to trade.

We all have our actual jobs, and we might have other obligations, work, kids, school, or whatever else it might be. Finding the time to work, practice, and our trading can be challenging. Additionally, some trading strategies are most effective during specific hours of the day. So if you are focused on trading during specific hours a day and you're at work around the same time, obviously, that's not gonna work. You have to make sure that you understand how much time you can really carve out for this out of your actual regular day and make sure that the strategy you're gonna be learning and trading can be executed within that same time that you can spare.

While practicing, especially, use tools like TradingView to replay past market data, simulated market conditions, and practice your strategy. This will help you as you can do this practically whenever you're free. Another big one is going to be greed and fear. Greed comes to mind first because obviously all of us came to trading to make money. Right?

It's not just this hobby that we randomly decided to do. As traders, we always need to keep a constant eye on our emotions as they affect the decisions we make. This often gets us into travel, so it's important to learn to recognize when we might be making emotional decisions. For example, when we're being greedy, we end up over risking or over trading, taking training setups that deep down don't really feel like they're, you know, the good time that we're looking for. Thinking that we will get to our goal faster, we'll make more money at the end of the day usually ends up the exact opposite, unfortunately.

So to kind of avoid this, remember that trading is a game of probabilities. It's not that one trade or that one setup that you can risk more on that will make a difference. Nothing is ever a 100% certain, so stick to your rules always. On the other hand, when we hesitate to execute the trade even when all the rules and all the boxes are checked out and the setup is valid, This is what we're being fearful. It can also happen once we start trading bigger accounts and, you know, seeing bigger dollar value at risk.

It's perfectly normal to feel this way, so don't feel bad. Just be conscious of it and make sure that you're prepared for these emotions. To kind of help you here, you want to you want to make sure that you're practicing your strategy religiously before you start trading live. This will give you the confidence to execute whenever the setup is validated without any hesitation. It is also helpful to start small whenever you finally feel ready to start trading live and increase your size as you feel comfortable and more confident.

Always remember trading is not a race, so scale up at your own pace, never rush. Once you get to trade bigger accounts, do the same thing. Just because all of a sudden you have more capital to work with, that doesn't mean you have to risk a bigger chunk of it right away. Take your time. Make sure that you're comfortable with the risk you're taking.

The 3rd and my personal nemesis is impatience. Oh, boy. Can I write a book on this? Impatience in its own is a bad thing, but what's worse about it is that it makes everything else in trading all the worse. Rushing through education or rushing through scanning the markets, ignoring our rules or not doing all the pre trade analysis that we wanted to do, forgetting to check if there's news events, all of these things just to get into that trade because, you know, it looks like it's going our way.

Never do that. We all want to be successful. We all want to be rewarded for our efforts and we're all conditioned to instant gratification. We want it now. We want it yesterday.

As a result, we ended up doing too much, too fast, rushing, skipping steps, or rushing to get to the next level even before we're ready. Trading too much or too many strategies, hoping strategies all the time, never sticking with one thing long enough for it to pay off. All of these things I've done. I'm sure all of these things you have run across here and there. Just remember, training is not a race.

Always keep a long term mindset. Remember how much work it took to get where you are. What does another hour or day or a week for the matter? Patience is key. Especially once you get to your to trading funded accounts and it took you weeks or months to get to that $100,000 of proprietary firm capital.

Yeah. Now you can make money. Do you really want to, you know, risk more all of a sudden and lose it just to have to start over? Trust me. You don't.

Take your time with it. What we'll go into next, guys, is your first practice project to kind of conclude some of the things we've talked about today. We'll have practice projects at almost every module going forward. The first one is gonna be a little bit different as we have not really thought any technical concepts today. So as you're going through this project, ask yourselves, make sure that you're following the instructions properly.

How can you really practice even more to dominate and get the setup committed to memory as much as you can? And are there any weaknesses areas of weakness that are showing that you can identify for yourself? Some of these are not going to be relevant today to the letter. As I said, this is not something technical that we'll be doing today. But go through these steps every time there is a practice at the end of the module so that you can really speed up your learning going forward.

Now as for today's exercise, let's take a look at it together. So the project that I have for you is going to be a 2 part part assignment. I hope you're still seeing my screen. Please stick a stick a comment for me if you still see what I'm sharing. Thank you, Jonathan.

So this exercise is meant to help you reflect on your personal challenges and obstacles as an aspiring trader in part 1 of it. And then envision and kind of make sure that you can really feel yourself and make make a picture for yourself of what you will be as a successful trader down the road, fostering some self awareness and motivation for your journey ahead. This should take you 1 to 2 hours, and ideally, you would do it on 2 separate days. You don't need anything technology wise. You just need a quiet place to sit down and relax or lie down and relax, pen and paper and maybe some relaxing music.

Nothing that distracts you. Nothing nothing loud and too much fun. Part 1, what we'll do here is we we can always we can often be our worst enemies. So it's important to be honest with ourselves, especially when it comes to trading and identify some of the things that might be an obstacle for you and might, you know, prevent us from achieving our goals early on. It is very important as a trader, especially as you're first starting to learn, to be comfortable in sticking to rules and following exact point by point instructions.

So what this exercise will help you do is identify some of the obstacles you might run into in doing so. So what you wanna do is just grab a pen and paper, find a quiet and comfortable place. Right? Sit down, relax, put the phone away. Trust me.

Far, far away. We don't want any distractions. So this might sound a little bit too close to meditation for those of you that don't like that sort of time, but close your eyes. Take a deep breath. Don't fall asleep.

Please don't fall asleep. Think back about the presentation that you you listened to, and feel free to run through the recording again before you do this. Thinking about it and reflecting on what you heard and maybe even thinking about what else you might have heard or you know about trading from this source or that, I want you to answer this question. What do you expect your biggest personal challenges or barriers would be when it comes to your becoming a successful trader? Ideally, you're gonna list at least 5, but for a bare bones minimum, do at least 3.

Every time you identify 1, write it down on your piece of paper or notepad, and then go back to thinking about it Do you and then identify as many as you can. Be honest with yourself. This will only help you, I promise you, even if it feels uncomfortable. So trust the process. Do this.

Once you have identified as many as you can, like I said, aim for 5 or more, but do at least 3. What you want to do is take a moment and think about each of those barriers or challenges that you just identified and try and venture a guess. Write a short description on why this may be a challenge for you and how do you think you can overcome it. You don't have to go into too much specific one or two sentences is enough. Just venture a guess if this was something you had to resolve today, how would you go about it?

So for this, once you're done with this, save it somewhere. I'm going to part 2. Part 2, like I said, ideally, will be do will be done on a different day. This will not be something that you have to submit today, so take your time. So long you do it before the next session next Wednesday.

It's gonna be more than enough. What part 2 is about is defining our why. What is it that drives us to do what we do and to get into trading? Statistically speaking, if we don't have a clear reason of why we do the things we do and our motivation isn't clear to us, our chances of reaching our goal drastically decrease. So grab a pen and paper again.

Get into that comfortable spot. Sit down or lie down, whatever feels more comfortable. Play some music if you need to. Stick that phone in the other room. No distractions.

What we'll do starts the same. Close our eyes, take a couple deep breaths, relax. For this exercise, though, imagine that it's 10 years from now, 2035, And you meet your future you. For the sake of the exercise, assume that today you began your journey as a trader. You followed all the instructions in the academy.

You were successful in becoming a successful trader. You took hard work. You took many challenges, some that were known to you and plenty that you didn't even expect you had to deal with. But this is all behind you now. It's 20 35.

You're wealthy. You're successful. You're happy, and you're truly free. What you want to do next is picture yourself, your future year, in as much detail as you can. What clothes do you wear?

Where do you live? What do they do for fun? What does your family look like? What about your house? Your friends?

Where do you go on vacation? How often? Anything you can think of in as much detail as you can. You can use a timer for this exercise, exercise. I would say try and spend at least 30 minutes really thinking about these things.

Once you're finished, write down the most memorable things from this experience. Everything that sticks out to you and gets you feeling excited about that future. You want your heart pumping about the things that are ahead of you. The more vivid the example, the better. Once you have completed both both part 1 and part 2 of the exercise, you're going to write a post in the legacy Hangout room where you're gonna express challenges from part 1 as well as, you know, what your future life as a successful trader might be.

It might feel a little weird in the beginning to do something like that, but getting it down in the writing and sharing it will help you later, and it help keep you motivated along the road. Trust me. Also, it will inspire other students, when they see some of the things you might share for your future. So it's always a good thing to work in team. Use a title, for your post as my challenges in my future, just as the example here.

If you have any questions, always follow the process in the academy to submit questions.
