
I want to give you a warm welcome to my course, the SID quick win method. It's going to be a fun ride. So buckle up and let's get started. So I'm Sydney Nyman. Please call me Sid instead of Sydney.

If I hear Sydney, I run for the exit because my parents call me that when I was in big trouble. A little about me a long time ago, I wanted to be a math teacher, but the very low pay led me into engineering. So I went on to Rutgers to get my bachelor's in chemical engineering. And then I wanted to understand business. So I went ahead to Southern Illinois University Edwardsville and got my MBA there.

What my career was like, I've held various roles in high-tech companies and was an engineer. I was in sales. I was a vendor manager, and I was rated top 10 managers, top 10% at Sun Microsystems, which had eventually been bought out by Oracle. My family. So this is a photo here with me and my wife, Deborah, while we were in Hawaii, one of the places we love to visit.

We're both smiling because we see the drinks are headed our way, those umbrella drinks. I could not have had any of the successes I've had in my life without her unwavering support. So thank you, honey. We also have 2 daughters. On the left is Rachel, and on the right is Adena, and the middle is my granddaughter, Naomi.

So where do I live? Right now, I live in, Arizona, Scottsdale, Arizona. And then I did grow up in New Jersey, Atlantic city, New Jersey, and I migrated to college, to California after college. And then I spent most of my working years in California, but then I also lived in Texas for a few years as well. Few things about me.

I love running. I've completed 21 marathons, including the Boston marathon. I still play a lot of tennis and pickleball through my running on the courts these days. I love trading and I love teaching people things that I'm skilled in. My trading experience.

I spent 15 years trading. And at this time, I learned a lot. As I'm sure you all know, finding something that genuinely works is not a simple process. It's one I've dedicated many years of my life towards though, as well as investing a lot of money into making it as perfect as possible. After many years, I've solidified a consistent profitable trading strategy that works, and it has brought me great success for the last 5 years.

When this finally happened, I was very excited. It was like being on a treasure hunt that you finally land on. This is the SID quick win method. I love teaching people and seeing them achieve their goals. So I'm excited to share the strategy I've developed over the years that works.

I know that many of you have spent many months and often years searching for something that works, and I can't wait for you to master it so you can reach your financial goals. A quote that I wanna share with you before we dive in deeper is follow your dreams and do what you love to do. It comes from a great and inspiring song by Poco. Trading allows me to do that. And by following this course, you will too.

So does the SID quick win method work, you may ask? I'm sure you come from a place where you're blasted with many different types of results that promise you the world. What I'm about to show you are real world results that allow me to live a life of genuine freedom and to supplement my retirement and travel with my wife. A professional trader is someone that can trade and has a method of trading that can generate consistent income. What I'm going to show you is not only what I achieved by trading just a few hours a week, but what you will also be able to do once you've learned my method.

To kick us off, here are some SID quick win method trade results based on strategy that we're talking about. So, first of all, these are a lot of numbers, but this is a summary of what I've generated over the last 8 months of 2023. There's a total profit of $32,701, and I'll, send win rate. This is a summary of what I've generated over the 1st 6 months of 2024. There's a total profit of $32,012 and $361 average per trade with a 74% win rate.

That means that while traveling with my wife, spending time with friends and family, teaching in the academy, I'm able to generate consistent income of $5,335 per month. Not bad for only a few hours a week. Many try to achieve unrealistic profit levels. However, this isn't the reality of how trading works. When you have a method of trading that is consistent and you know how to navigate the markets properly, this allows you to focus on the aspects of life that you really enjoy.

If you're watching this later on, then remember that this is just a sample of the trades that I've completed at the time of making this course. I'm sure you come from a place where you're blasted with many different types of results that promise you the world. And I'm about to show you a real world results that allow me to live a life of genuine freedom and to supplement my retirement and travel with my wife. A professional trader is someone that can trade has a method of trading that can generate consistent income. What I'm going to show you is not only what I achieve trading in just a few hours a week, but you will also be able to do once you've learned my method.

Here are some trading wins showing charts and screenshots from my brokerage account. This is a trading win for an overbought trade on XLK resulting in $261 profit. And we'll go through some charts in these, annotations in a couple of slides, but wanted to show you the trade wins. So this is a brokerage account screenshot showing on that previous trade that I purchased and spent $405 purchasing that put. And then this screenshot from my account shows that I recovered $661.31, and that's how I got my profit.

Now here's another trade where I managed to get a $565 profit on Boeing, and it's showing that we had an overbought trade and made that much money. Now this is a screenshot showing the brokerage account that I spent this amount of money buying into the trade. And there's a screenshot showing this amount of money that it got out of the trade making a $556 profit. Now here's one more where I traded this stock, which was snowflake. SNOW is a symbol profit of $279.

This was a brokerage account showing the purchase when I first entered the trade, and this was the exit of the trade, which gave me my profit. So I'd say, yes, it definitely works. So with the additional trading income last year, my wife and I traveled to Hawaii twice, and we also visited Yellowstone National Park last year. And we also traveled to various other states for things like family gatherings, etcetera, with no problems financially to do that. So my trading journey, let's dive into it.

So like me, when I started, you were probably bombarded with many get rich offers through trading. Sales pitches that include plan to make a 100 ks in just one month of trading. Proprietary software that delivered nothing but winning trades. Market gurus that held the secret to becoming rich. Only 500 videos to build wealth and more huge, but unrealistic promises that are not the reality of what becoming a successful trader looks like.

Well, let's go over what a real trading journey looks like when you actually put in the work, overcome the barriers and learn how to be successful. Like I did. Here's what my trading journey looked like at the beginning. When I look back at my journey to becoming a successful trader, I remember how things were very cloudy in the beginning. There was a lack of clarity in what to do to become successful.

These are some of the things I experienced. Every trading strategy I tried eventually failed if there was some success in the beginning. I spent lots of time and money on educating trading services, trying to find the answer with no luck. Trading education services I tried did not deliver what they promised, and I would end up with no progress or refunds. I became very angry and frustrated and was trade trending water and getting nowhere financially.

I did not have a mentor or support person I could go to with my trading questions. I was alone. And a few of these things may sound familiar to you as well. A lesson learned. When I was in high school, I had a math teacher that was very influential for me.

He was such a respected teacher and role model for me that I pretty much did everything he instructed us to do down to the letter. He would tell us that when he flipped his tie over his shoulder, that we should pay attention and take notes since that problem he was reviewing would probably be on the next test. One day, he was wearing out his tie flipping a lot. The next day, he announced the pop quiz. As he passed out the quiz face down on each student's desk, he told us not to turn the papers over until he said so.

He had a list of rules written on the blackboard. Read the entire quiz first, 5 pages. Work the problems you know first and skip the ones you don't know. Come back to the hard ones later. Don't expect to finish all the problems.

Turn the paper over on your desk when you are done. Everyone was eager to start and rush to get as many problems done as possible. Fortunately, I followed the instructions to the letter, remember to the T. So I read the entire quiz first, the last page stated, if you are reading this, you are done. Turn your paper over.

It was a quiz about following instructions. About half the class got A's and half the class flunked. It was quite the lesson I learned that day, and this was the day I learned about the benefits that can happen when you follow the rules. Another lesson learned. When I got to college, I thought I was pretty smart, but then had a rude awakening during the orientation.

The dean of engineering was giving a speech. He said, look to your left and look to your right. Out of the 3 of you, only one will make it through to graduation. Yikes, I thought. In high school, I was in the top 30 in my class, but had to work very hard to achieve that.

Many students were so naturally smart. They could just read something once and pass any test on what they read. It came easy to them. For me, I had to have a very disciplined approach to studying subjects and oftentimes reviewing the material many times before completely understanding it. The disciplined approach to studying I developed in high school was a lifesaver in college.

The engineering curriculum was full of the full load of 21 credits each and every semester for 4 years. My own kids yelled bloody murder at 15 credits when they went to college. Yeah. They're just such lightweights. Many of the natural smart students who did not have a disciplined approach to studying ended up dropping out.

Yes. Only 1 in 3 graduated. And it was a very proud day for me and my parents because I was one of them. Finally, they said, I was out of the house for good. Now you are on the road to become a successful trader.

The road you are about to take will lead you to a unique place. You will be able to call the home of a very successful stock trader. Your place. It may seem like a long and winding road, but after you're done, you will look back and see how far you've come in a relatively short time. What you will learn will be invaluable for the rest of your life and will be one of the best educational journeys you will experience.

At the end of this course, you'll be able to successfully trade the stock market in a very consistent profitable way. You'll have a win rate of over 60% in all your trades. It will take you to financial freedom you seek to change your life in a very positive way. So how do you do this too? Well, let's dive into what that will look like.

Why you should learn this? 1st things first. Here's what the quick win method will provide you. You'll gain lots of knowledge and understanding of the strategy in a very short period of time. You'll be able to apply trading skills you learn to quickly find setups of profitable trades.

You will gain confidence in your ability to quickly identify winning trades. You will your quick win success will help you attain more consistent profits in your trading. Your completion of the quick win program will be the first step for you towards building a 6 figure account. You'll be on your way to meeting your financial goals, to have the freedom to buy what you want, when you want, without worrying about it. Once you've completed the quick win and if you end up staying in the academy long term, which I hope you do, you'll be able to learn all the elements that I use to make money in the markets.

If you don't learn the sit quick win method properly, here's what's going to happen. You'll lose the opportunity to trade for profits in a very short period of time. You won't gain confidence in your ability to quickly identify winning trades. You'll be giving up the chance to attain more consistent profits in your trading. You will lose out on the first step to building a 6 figure trading account.

First of all, your wealth and your financial situation will change once you have mastered the skill of the said method. You will have freedom by working for yourself and acquiring all the money you need for your lifestyle. There will be no stress about losing your job. You'll have the financial ability to provide for your family. You'll have enough money to take your dream vacation each and every year, and you'll have the ability to help family members and others.

Not only your finances will change, but so will your health as you will have the time to pursue a healthy lifestyle lifestyle of your choice. For me, financial success in trading has led to a healthier lifestyle without worrying about the cost of choosing healthy options. I was able to join a high end club that provided a variety of workout classes as well as indoor tennis, which helped me achieve my ideal weight and feel really great. Achieving financial freedom for me meant I could buy high quality foods and nourish my body in a very healthy way without eliminating options that were too pricey. Choosing the right healthy options and not worrying about the price led me to feel great both physically and mentally as well as lowering my stress level.

Now imagine your relationship with your family, friends, and peers will change when you are positive, confident, and happy and content. What will this look like? Your confidence from trading will show in your demeanor, enhancing your relationship with family and friends. Your family and friends will love being around you, and your peers will positively gravitate towards you. You'll have the freedom to spend quality time and be there for your family, never missing another school sports day or play, and you will have the means to visit family and friends wherever they are located and as often as you like.

Your quality of life and happiness will improve as you build strong relationships, and you'll become a role model for valuing and building close relationships. As we learn the quick win strategy, here is some words you'll need to know. Watch list, list of stocks or ETFs, which will be the source of potential trades. ETFs are exchange traded funds, a type of investment fund that trades on stock exchanges. Just like individual stocks, ETFs are designed to track performance of a specific index, sector, or basket of assets.

Ad hoc or miscellaneous refers to stocks you may track beyond your watch list. Price chart shows pricing over time for a stock or instrument. Daily chart, price chart using a daily time frame. Each price depicts one day. RSI, the relative strength index, is used to identify an oversold or overbought condition.

MACD moving average convergence divergence, which is used with the RSI to identify potential trades when both are pointing in the same direction at the same time. Price pattern, double bottom and inverted head and shoulders for price moving up, double top, and head and shoulders for price moving down. Oversold signal, RSI value less than 30, price expected to move up for a potential long trade. Overbought signal, RSI value greater than 70. Price moving down for potential short trade.

And charting program shows price in RSI and MACD. Trading view is an example. Now to create the watch list, you'll need a software charting program such as trading view. Now let's go over how to master the sit quick win method. Step by step here is each individual step that you're going to learn.

Step 1 is set up your watch list. Step 2 is the SID method, quick win, strategy method. Step 3 is the trade entry and exit. And step 4 is position sizing and trade management. We'll go over each step and then you'll go ahead and practice it yourself.

Grab your cup of coffee or tea. Let's get ready to learn and take notes. Let's dive in. The first step is setting up your watch list. What is a watch list?

The watch list, the list of stocks and ETFs exchange traded funds that will be the source of potential trades. Let's talk about why this is important. The watch list will ensure that you have good representation of the various sectors of the stock market in order to always be able to find potential trading opportunities. It will help you stay focused on a specific group of stocks. So you will not be confused about what stocks to watch.

This gives you something you can review on a regular basis and add or delete stocks as needed to make sure you have a good list of up to date stocks for potential trades. Without a good watch list, you can miss out on trades. Here's a starter watch list you can use to populate your trading view. Here are the steps to create a watch list using trading view. Once we're done with these, there'll be a short video to show you how it's done.

Open trading view and bring up any chart. Click on the right hand panel. Click on the watch list icon to open the watch list. The icon is in the upper right shown as a square with 3 horizontal lines. Click on the watch list name.

A window will open that will allow you to create a new watch list as well as show a list of all watch lists you already have. Create a new watchlist and give it a name, such as mySid Quickwin watchlist. Click the plus sign beside the name of your new watchlist to bring up an add symbol list of assets available in TradingView. Type in the symbol of the asset in the search box below add symbol. Look for the ticker name of the asset you've chosen and click the plus.

Repeat steps 56 until you have added all 50 assets mentioned in the starter watch list. Hi, everyone. This is a quick video on how to set up your watch list using trading view. So here I've opened up trading view when you go into tradingview.com and open it up. And then if you bring up any chart, in this case, it's Apple.

We see a chart of Apple. And on the upper right here, we see this little area. If you hold your pointer there, it says watch list details and news. If you click on that, it'll bring up, a watch list that you currently have. And if we click on the name right here of this watch list, brings up a, opportunity to create a new list.

If you look on the left hand side under watch list, I have a bunch of watch list here. But if you look down here, create new list. You've clicked on create new list, and then you give it a name. In this case, let's call it trading you watch list. And once you put in the title, you can click save and then it opens it up on your right hand side.

Now you can see it's empty. You click this plus sign here, it'll bring up a list of stocks you can add to it and if you have the all clicked, this will give you all the stocks and exchange traded funds you want to add. So in this box right here, we'll start with adding Apple, AAPL. If you type in that symbol, see Apple comes up and you select the one that has a NASDAQ and the American flag, which means is this is the US market. So we click on that and we see we get a little indicator here that we can either delete it or go to the symbol.

If we x this out, we see that Apple has now appeared in the trading view watch list. And if we click on the plus sign again, we can type in another symbol AMD, for instance, for Advanced Micro Devices. And we look at here, we click on all, we have this all button, and then we click on the first one which has the US, the American flag stands for the US market. It shows you the NASDAQ market. You'll click on this and you'll see you still have, you can delete it if you want to delete it or you can go to the symbol.

If we x this out, we see that AMD has been added. So go through the list, the watch list I've given you as a starter list and just add your symbols here and you will have them in your watch list and you can call it whatever you want. So that's how you do it on trading view. Alright. Good luck.

Alright. So where does this all fit in? Even though it may seem basic, the watch list is vitally important. The watch list creation is the easiest of the core elements to learn about and utilize. It is the starting point for finding new trades and keeping you focused on following the process and by taking the first step for executing a trade.

Once you have learned to create the watch list, you'll be able to continue on to the next step in the strategy with a solid list of potential trade possibilities to explore with the next steps in the process. Barriers you may face. Some barriers you may face include a lack of understanding how to use a software charting program to create the watch list. To help with this, there are tutorials on how to use the most popular software trading view, and you also have a short video provided in previous slides on how to do this. Another barrier may be what to include in the watch list.

To help with this, you can start with my predetermined watch list that I have provided. The beginning watch list will be the predetermined list of 50 items listed previously. At the intermediate level, you'll be deleting and adding different symbols based on stock market activity and which stocks are good to include as part of the new strategy. The advanced level watch list will include many stocks and ETFs that are the best choices for potential trades based on previous positive experiences with the strategy. The Sid method, quick win strategy.

For the first second step, you'll go through a step by step process to find, analyze, and trade stocks for profit using the SID quick win method strategy. No more wondering what to do and how to do it. This is a SID method strategy overview. The basic steps are RSI signal, determine if there is a trade potential, if the RSI is below 30 oversold or above 70 overbought. RSI aligned.

RSI are pointing in the same direction at the same time with the MACD crossing or just pointing with no cross. Stop loss is placed between the RSI signal and trade entry date and rounded to the nearest whole number. For oversold, the lowest low rounded down to the nearest whole value, overbought highest high rounded up to highest value. When RSI 50 is reached is your take profit area. But before we move forward with the steps involved in applying this method, we'll go over how to add the RSI MACD technical indicators to your trading view charts to help find potential trades.

For these two indicators, we only use the default settings. No need to make any changes. So the RSI relative strength default is 14, and the back d moving average convergence divergence default is 1226 9, which comes up automatically when you bring them up on your chart. This is what it looks like when you bring up a chart, you could see the price is on top, and then we have the RSI indicator below the price. And then we have the MACD indicator here, and you can see the default values as we listed them.

So here are the steps to add the RSI indicator to trading view. Once we have gone over the steps, there'll be a short video on how it's done. Open trading view and bring up your chosen chart. Click on the button labeled indicators above the chart. In the resulting new window, click on technicals.

In the search bar above the indicator list, type in RSI to find relative strength index and select it to add the RSI indicator to your chart. Go to the RSI indicator on your chart. Hover over the mouse cursor over the RSI name on the left. A number of icons will appear right besides the RSI name. Click on the gear icon, bring up the settings.

Under the style tab, uncheck the RSI based MA, which will take away an unwanted line in your chart. How to add RSI to trading views. Alright. Let's take a look. This is how to add MACD.

We just went over our side. Here is the MACD. After we find an over bought over a signal from the RSI, we look to see if there is alignment, the RSI and MACD. So we're going to open trading view and bring up your chosen chart. Click on the button labeled indicators above the chart resulting new window.

Click on technicals. In the search bar above the indicator list, type in MACD to find the moving average convergence divergence. Select it to add the MACD indicator to your chart. Go to the MACD indicator on your chart and hover your mouse cursor over the MACD name on the left. A number of icons will appear right besides the MACD name, click on the gear icon to bring up the settings under style tab, uncheck histogram, which will take away some unwanted lines on your chart.

Hi everyone. In this lesson, we're going to take a look at how we put the RSI and the MACV indicator on trading view. So here we have a chart of TradingView. We see it's a chart of Apple. In the upper left, we see AAPL symbol for Apple, and we see the price here, and we have 2 moving averages on this chart.

The blue line is a 50 day simple moving average, and the red line is the 200 day simple moving average. But we don't see any indicators. We want to add the RSI and MACD. So if we look at this top line right here, this top row, we see this word that says indicators. So we click on indicators.

Pretty convenient. And then we get a list on the left here. We're going to click on technical indicators because we're going to have technical indicators. And then in the search box, instead of scrolling all the way down through, we're going to type in RSI and we can see relative strength index comes up. So we click on it and then we close this box out with this upper x here and then we see we have the RSI.

Now we also see this big yellow line and this yellow line really represents the moving average of the RSI, which we're not going to use. So if we hold our cursor on this RSI and we go across, we come across hide and come across settings. So we click on settings and once you click on settings, input may be the default that shows you the RSI default, which we're using. You click on style and you'll see this yellow, bright yellow RSI based moving average. We see that is clicked as on.

So we're gonna click it to turn it off, and then we x out this box. So we see we have a clean RSI indicator with no yellow line moving average getting in our way. So now we have the RSI. Let's go back to indicators to add the MACD. So click on indicators, we'll click on technical and in the search box we're going to type in MACD for MACD.

We see the first one that comes up moving average convergence divergence. We click on it and then we close this out. Now we see we have the RSI panel here and below it we have the MACD. Now for the MACD, we see we have a blue line and a red line, which is the ones we're interested in. However, we also see all these bars with colors and that's a histogram.

So we're going to get rid of that. So we're going to go back to the MACD, we hold our arrow on the MACD, we come across and we see high, we don't use that, we see settings, we go to settings, click on it. And then of course, we're on style and we see we have histogram which is checked off is showing. So we're gonna click on it to turn it off and we x this out. And we see now we have a clean MACD showing.

So now we have a clean RSI, we have a clean MACD with crossing, and we have the price chart up here. So that's how you put the 2 indicators on trading view. Hope that helps and we'll see you in the next lesson. Take care. Hi, everyone.

In this lesson, we're going. All right, now let's talk about the RSI signal. The first step in the SID method strategy is to find either overbought or oversold as indicated by the RSI value. This shows RSI in the overbought region up here in the shaded area. And that's above RSI 70.

And the oversold region down here, we see that RSI is below 30 in this shaded area that's oversold. Once we have the RSI in one of these regions overbought or oversold, then we have a potential trade setting up. The next step is to see if we have RSI and MACD alignment. So here we take a look at ours for RSI and MACD alignment. By alignment, we mean both the RSI and MACD are pointing in the same direction at the same time.

The MACD can just be pointing in the same direction as RSI and not crossing, or it can also be pointing and crossing in the same direction. Both are valid approaches for trade entries. So here's an example of a chart of GLD, and we're showing an overbought RSI above 70. Let's see. No.

This one is oversold. Actually, we're oversold here, and we're showing in this case, the MACD pointed up and the RSI pointed up. The MACD is crossing here in this case. So we show MACD cross in this example. In this example, we have an overbought condition, and we show that the RSI is pointing down.

The MACD is pointing, but no cross. So it shows us we have an alignment and a point direction, but no cross. Stop loss. So a stop loss placement is key to a successful trading strategy. A stop loss helps us keep any losses to a minimum with a goal of capital preservation, not blowing up your account.

A stop loss placed between RSI signal and the trade entry. The stop loss for oversold is placed at the lowest low rounded down between the RSI oversold signal and the trade entry. And the stop loss for overbought trades is placed at the highest high rounded up between RSI overbought signal and the trade entry date. Here's an example of a stop loss for an oversold, green arrow here, we see we're oversold on snow. The lowest price between RSI signal for oversold and the trade entry date was on 6/25/24 and it came out to be 12260.

So therefore the stop loss is 122 since we round down to nearest whole number stop loss of 122. Here's another example of a stop loss for an overbought. We see the red arrow. We're overbought, and, this is a trade on a and f. The highest price between RSI signal for overbought and the trade entry was 19699.

So we round that up to the next highest hold number, which would be 197, and that's your stop loss for this trade. Take profit is definitely the fun step in the SAID quick win method strategy. Take profit when the RSI reaches 50. You can set an alert in trading view for RSI 50 so you're notified when it happens. The trading view tutorial video found in classroom section will show how this is done.

Step 3, trade entry and exit. In this lesson, you'll learn how to use the SID quick win method strategy to enter trades at the correct time and take profit at the right time in any market condition. The trade entry and exit steps will take the guesswork out of when to enter a trade and when to take profit. This will help you choose the correct position sizing for your trades and keep you from blowing out your account. And it will help you avoid losses while trading during a volatile market, as well as in calm market conditions, which seems to be a thing of the past.

But first, let's review the sit method strategy of rules. So we have them handy for potential trades. We have 2 lists, 1 for long trades and one for short trades. Here is the checklist for long trades. Make sure your RSI and MACD are set using default values.

There's a short video on how to do that in trading view, and we saw that. Right? And then, we're looking for an RSI signal where the RSI is below 30 for an oversold condition. Once we have the RSI oversold signal, we can check for the earnings date to make sure we're not within 14 calendar days of earnings report. Next, we look for RSI MACD to be aligned pointing in this up direction at the same time and for the MACD to have crossed.

This entry provides less risk for the trade than just entering when a MACD has not crossed. We'll look at some examples in a moment. Next, you wanna set out a stop loss at the lowest low price rounded down between the signal date and the entry date. As an example, if lowest price was 20.6, we would have a stop loss of 20. If the lowest price was a 105.7, the stop loss would be a 105.

Next, we take profit when the RSI reaches 50. Close the trade and take profit when 50 is reached. You can set an alert in trading view for RSI 50, so you can take profit when you get the alert. This is the SIG quick win method checklist for short trades. Make sure your RSI and MACD are set using default values.

We're looking for an RSI overbought condition. Once we have the RSI overbought signal, we check for the earnings date to make sure we're not within 14 calendar days. Next, we look for the RSI and MACD to be aligned pointing in the down direction at the same time and for the MACD to have crossed. This entry provides less risk for the trade than entering when the MACD is not crossed. We'll look at some examples in a moment.

Next, we want to set the stop loss at the highest high price rounded up between the signal date and the entry date. As an example, if the price was 20.6, we would have a stop loss of 21. If it was 105.7, we would have a stop loss of 106. Take profit again when the RSI reaches 50, close the trade and take profit at that point. Let's apply the sit quick win method checklist of rules to some trades.

Here is the checklist of rules for going long, which we went over. And here is an example of a trade where we're going long. We have an oversold signal, and we apply the checklist. We're looking for the signal, which we got here. We're looking for the alignment with the MACD.

In this case, the MACD is pointing up, RSI pointing up, and the MACD is actually crossing at this case. And then we have the stop loss calculated right here. We have the take profit when RSI reaches 50. Let's take a look at another example. And in this example, we see we have an oversold condition with the green arrow.

So we're looking for RSI to point up, and the MACD is pointing up as well here, but it's not crossing, but it is pointing up. So this is our trade entry. We calculate our stop loss here, and then we take profit when RSI hits 50. Now let's take a look at some examples for short trades. This was a short trade list we had earlier.

And we take a look at this example. We're looking for an overbought signal, which we got here. And then we take a look at the RSI and MACD. In this case, the MACD is crossing right here. RSI is pointing down right here, and then we have the stop loss calculated up here, and we have to take profit at us.

RSI hits 50. We have another example where we're looking at overbought and we have the RSI pointing down and the MACD pointing down, but not crossing at this case. And we have the stop loss here and we have a take profit at RSI 50 there. Now let's look at position sizing position size for trading is a key component of risk management. It is used to determine how much money you'll spend on any one trade based on the account size and risk management.

Position sizing is used to determine how much money you're going to spend on the trade and use to determine the right position size. You'll need to use these parameters in your calculation. You'll have to look at account size. You'll have to look at percentage risk amount. You'll have to look at the risk guideline, which is 0.5 to 2% of the account.

And we'll look at the dollar risk amount. How much are you willing to risk in dollars? We'll look at the entry price. What's the entry price of the trade you're doing? We'll look at the stop loss.

What's the stop loss? And then, ideally, you don't wanna have more than 3 to 5 active trades for risk management. And remember, capital preservation is rule number 1, do not blow out your account. So here is a position size calculation. In this case, we're looking at an account size of $2,000 We're looking at risk percent, 0.5 to 2% beginners should use 0.5 risk amount per trade.

In this case, it's, we're using 2%, which is 2% of 2,000 is $40. The stock price entry minus the stop loss is the dollar risk. And then the percent risk per position is your dollar risk amount per share divided by the dollar price entry. And then the position size dollar position size is your risk per position divided by percent risk per position. Maximum number of shares to purchase is your position size divided by the entry price.

Now we're gonna take a look at all these numbers that'll make sense in the example. Now here's an example we're gonna use. We're looking at, stock called para, p a r a, and we're looking at a stop loss of 9 point o. We looked at this trade. We have an overbought signal.

We're looking to get in where both are assigned MACD is pointing up. As we said, this would be the entry entry of 10.26, stop loss of 9.0 as I've mentioned. So those are the 2 levers we're gonna use for position sizing for determining how much of this stock are we gonna buy based on this and the percent risk? So the question is, how many shares should I buy, power based on the risk tolerance? So let's go through this.

So the account size we're gonna use an example is $5,000 risk percent per trade, 2%. And a risk amount per trade is $100, which is 2% of the 5,000. So this is the most you're going to lose. That's how much you're gonna risk at the most. The risk amount per trade does not equal the dollar position size.

So this amount is not the position size. It's the amount you're willing to risk. The risk amount per trade is actually the maximum loss for the trade. This is your maximum loss, $100. So the dollar risk amount per share is equal to the entry price minus the stop loss.

So here's the entry price, and here's a stop loss. So the dollar risk per share is a dollar 26, 1.26. The percent risk is equal to the dollar risk per share, 1.26 divided by the entry price. So we're looking at a 12.28% risk, and the position size is equal to the dollar risk amount per trade divided by the percent risk per position. So we have a $100 as the total risk and divided by this 12.28%, This is your position size.

Now notice your position size, $814 much larger than the $100 that you're willing to risk. And then the maximum number of shares to purchase is just your position size, 814 divided by the stock entry price. So 814 divided by 1026, 79.33. We always round down because we want to make sure that we're, the number of shares we're buying does not exceed the risk amount. So that's why we round out.

So that's how you would calculate this. Now there's actually a position size calculator, which you can go to. If you clicked on here, we'll take it to this calculator. The first line here shows you what we just went over. And in the calculator, all you have to do is fill in the account value, the risk, entry price and the stop loss, and the numbers are all calculated for you.

You could see we calculated the shares to buy a 79.36 or rounded down to 79. Now the other rows here are different parameters we put in. So let's say we had a $5,000 account. We wanna do 1% risk. And then we had the same entry stop loss.

This calculates how many shares you would buy for 1% risk and so on. So you could use this calculator it's active, and you can use it to determine your position size. All right. So the stock market volatility happens quite often based on economic and global factors. So how do you trade in that vault?

That market trading during a volatile market can be very difficult as a market gyrates up and down with no predictable direction. One of the key ways to trade of all the markets, make sure you're strictly following the strategy rules. Do not deviate from them. Here are some things you can do if to make sure you're not departing from the trading rules. All right.

Here are some ways to keep from breaking the rules. Keep the trading rules in front of you at all times when trading. If it's not on the list, do not use it. Different time frames, indicators, analysis. Don't use anything that's not on the list.

Check each component on the list 3 times before you trade. Write down all the ways you broke the rules before and review it before trading. Make a list of winning trade stocks and losing trade stocks. Do not trade those losers. Check for key events, earnings dates, and any other item news items.

Do not denigrate yourself when you stray. Congratulate your accomplishments. Make sure they really internalize each of these steps and you practice them until you feel comfortable with each step. Now we're gonna take a holistic understanding of how everything you're learning fits into the big picture. Let's take a step back for a moment.

Now that we've studied how I use these simple tools, let's take a look at going back and what we've learned after spending 15 years developing my method of trading and investing. What we're studying now is a crash course on how I trade. And we call it the quick win program. It's impossible to put everything I know into this one course. However, simplify your focus on studying what we have gone through over here in the best of your ability.

Your success will be dictated by how you use this information. Let's take a step and make sure you have studied make sure you have studied this module properly. Complete the practice projects. That's very key. Use the resources we provide in the academy.

The most important being live sessions. If you can't attend the live session, make sure you watch the recording. Stick to the process and trust the educational structure that we provide here within the academy. Now let's look at some barriers you may face. As part of learning process, you'll face some big barriers along the way.

I know I did, and I was it was a challenge getting through them. Here are 3 big barriers you might face and how you can recognize getting through them. At some point, you will gain enough knowledge before you finish the course that will lead you to think you can trade live with what you know. Don't do it. You'll catch yourself looking at a chart and thinking, I could have made that trade with what I know now.

You will look for another one like it and be tempted to go all in on the trade. Remember to tell yourself any trade can go against you no matter how sure you are. We teach a very specific process here in the academy that will put you in a position where you are ready to trade live. First, you should learn properly, And in the last slide, I walked you through how you can do that in the previous slides. Next, you need to back test properly.

This needs to be robust and solidified. Next, you'll need to forward test on a demo and then a small live account if you're invited and you choose to continue studying in the academy under instruction after the quick win. We'll move on. Alright. And then once you have tested the method and you're a 100% sure that you're ready, then and only then will you shift into a live trading account?

Stick to the course curriculum until you finish. After learning the said method using daily charts, you may be tempted to use a method on another timeframe, like 15 minutes or hourly. Don't do it. You may find that, it may work on occasion, but don't deviate from the rules. I've already tried it.

The reason we put together this program is so you don't have to spend over a decade figuring things out like I did. Do not add your own trading rules and end up with a strategy beast of a strategy. Don't use your own filters to not follow the rules. You may see how other time frames may work with the sit method and be tempted to use those. Don't.

It will be more beneficial to you in the long run to stick to what works. There will be times when the lessons will be overwhelming and you may be ready to throw in the towel and quit based on what is happening in your life at that time. You may be thinking you will never be able to finish all the distractions. Don't give up and stay the course. Focus on what you can accomplish within small steps.

Keep moving forward. You will get through it. Now how can you build consistency with a Sid quick win method over the long run? After you complete this lesson, go back and review the practice projects for each lesson. Repeat the practice projects using different stocks this time.

The more you practice, the more consistent you will become, and there will be a practice session after each of the lessons. Go back to the lessons that were not as clear as you would like them to be after the completion of the first time. Do those lessons again, along with the practice projects. This will build confidence and consistency. Post your results to the community and note the feedback, review the post from others to see their results compared to yours.

Give feedback to others and share your thoughts. Here are the basic stages of progress. What would a beginner be like? You'll be prone to many errors at this stage in the 1st 2 weeks. Being confused and also overwhelmed is normal.

Keep pushing forward, and don't worry about the errors. You are not looking for perfection here. What will the intermediate look be look like? At this stage, in weeks 2 to 4, many trade entries and exits will become clearer to you. You may still experience some confusion, but more moments will appear.

We like those moments. There will be significant progress in identifying more profitable trades. You'll have a higher confidence level in your trading. What will it advance be like? After practicing at about 4 to 6 weeks, you'll feel like you really get it.

This point, you'll have nailed it consistently. You'll notice a vast improvement in your trading results. You'll be able to use your new knowledge to help others in the community. Now let's summarize everything you've learned. If you feel that something is unclear, then go back, study it again, do not move forward to the next module unless you fully understand How to be successful using the SAID quick win method.

In order to be successful using the SAID quick win trading strategy, it's vitally important to follow the rules and proceed at a sustainable pace. Learning any new strategy or subject requires time and discipline. This is not an overnight success road map to riches. It requires time and patience, but the rewards will last a lifetime. Follow the process.

Each learning module has a step by step process clearly defined for you to follow and get the most out of the lesson. Next, do the practice projects for each of the steps. The step by step process along with practice project to each lesson will help you retain the knowledge you gain, make sure that you do each and every every one of these for every module. You should be open minded as you go through the learning process without second guessing or applying any of your own filters to the lessons. If you stay disciplined and stick to the rules, you will be successful.

Focus on developing the core values of the academy. Should be a goal of yours to be a good student in the academy. Now it's time for you to practice and learn this. Once you have completed the projects, attach them post, in your community. And that way you can see and compare your work with others.

Thanks, and I will see you in the next module and live session.
