
Hi, everyone. I wanted to give you a warm welcome to my course, the Sid Method. This module introduce you to me and my course. So it's going to be a really fun ride. So buckle up and let's get started.

I'm Sydney Nyman, but you can call me Sid. When I was growing up, when I heard Sydney from my parents, I used to run for the exit because my parents called me that when I was in big trouble. So if you see me, I prefer Sid. A little bit about me. Long time ago, I wanted to be a math teacher, but the very low pay led me into engineering.

So I went directors for my bachelor's in engineering and chemical engineering. And then I decided, well, I want to understand business better. So I went to get my MBA in Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville. Where do I live? Well, I am residing in beautiful, sunny Arizona.

And I have lived on both coasts, East Coast, West Coast, as well as in Texas for a while. Most of my working years, though, were spent in the San Francisco, California area. Few things about me. I really love running and completed in 20 1 marathons and including the Boston Marathon twice with my brother. And that was quite the event.

And I still play a lot of tennis, love tennis for a long time and now getting into pickleball, the latest sport. And then I also love trading and I really love coaching people and teaching people and things that I know. So what was my career like? So I started out as an engineer and then I quickly branched out into sales and vendor management. I managed a lot of vendors and then I was rated in the top 10% of all the managers in all these positions when I was manager in those positions.

And specifically at Sun Microsystems, they rated me in the top 10% of managers and Sun Microsystems was eventually going out by Oracle. So my journey in the last 15 years of training has been very interesting and I've actually learned a lot during that time period. And then in the last. 5 years. I developed a consistent, profitable method of training.

And I call it the said method and SID is a cute little acronym. I looked at different acronyms and decided, well, what could go with my name? SID. And it was sucking in dollars. So a cute little acronym for my method.

This is me and my wife, my lovely wife, and we're smiling there because we see that drinks are coming our way. We're in Hawaii in this photo and having a great time. And I couldn't have any success without my wife supporting me as the way she did. She's been awesome. And then we also have 2 daughters on the left is Rachel and on the right is Adena, and this is our granddaughter, Naomi, and she's quite intelligent, quite smart.

And I like to get Adena, her mother. You know, it skips a generation. So why am I doing this? Well. After 15 years.

Of learning and going through a lot of different experimental strategies, trying to figure out what worked. I learned a lot, and I'm sure you all know that finding something that works, it's not a simple process. Yeah, it's developed a process for me that does work. And I've dedicated a lot of years of my life towards that, as well as invested a lot of money to make sure it worked and it was perfect. So after many years, I did find that strategy that worked and has brought me a lot of success.

When it finally happened, I was really, really excited. It was like being on a treasure hunt and you finally land on that treasure, the pot of gold. And then, really, I love teaching and I love sharing a strategy I've developed so you can reach your financial goals as well. I'm excited to share it, and I know I can't wait for you to master it as well so you can reach what you need to reach in terms of your goals. And I'm here to help you do that.

So this is a quote from a song that I really love the lyrics to, and I really love the song itself. It's called Follow Your Dreams and Do What You Want to Do. It's a song that comes from a group called Poco, and trading allows me to do that. And by following this course, you'll be able to do that as well. So does this method work?

You may ask. I'm sure you're coming from a place where you're blasted with many different types of results that promise you the world when I'm about to show you a real world results that allow me to live a life of genuine freedom and to supplement my retirement and travel with my wife. A professional trader is someone that can trade and has a method of trading that can generate consistent income. What I'm going to show you is not only what I have achieved by trading just a few hours a week, but what you will also be able to do once you learn my method. To kick off, let's take a look at some of the SIM method trading results based on the strategy that we're talking about.

So first of all, this is a lot of numbers, but this is a summary of what I've generated over the last 9 months. There's a total profit and a 73% win rate. This means that while traveling with my wife, spending time with friends and family, teaching in the academy, I'm able to generate a consistent income of over $4,300 every month and I'm averaging 200. This isn't the reality of how trading really works. When you have a method of trading that is consistent and you know how to navigate the markets properly, this allows you to focus on the aspects of life that you really enjoy.

So here are some January 2024 wins charts and screenshots from my brokerage account. This is a shot of the chart of QQQ which I traded. This is my brokerage account for that QQQ chart trade that I did. And here is another brokerage account where I bought the previous one was where I sold and I made a profit of $881 and here is a chart of another trade I did with Boeing and here is my Fidelity brokerage account screenshot of the Boeing trade where I bought and then sold for profit. And here is a chart of SMH and the SMH chart shows here is the screenshot of the Fidelity brokerage account for that trade on SMH and here is a chart of SQQ which I also traded with my method and here is a brokerage account of when I sold it and when I bought it for a profit.

Yes, it definitely works. With the additional income just this year, my wife and I traveled to Hawaii twice, visited Yellowstone National Park and traveled to various states for things like family gatherings with no problems financially. And when it works you can reap the benefits. Speaking of benefits, let's go over how your life will change after you've mastered the method. First of all, your wealth and your financial situation will change once you have mastered the skill of the method.

You will have freedom by working for yourself and acquiring all the money you need for your lifestyle. There'll be no stress about losing your job. You will have the financial ability to provide for your family. You will have enough money to take your dream vacation each and every year. And you'll have the ability to help family and others, your health, not only your finances will change, but so will your health as you will have the time to pursue a healthy lifestyle of your choice.

For me, financial success in trading has led to healthier lifestyle without worrying about the cost of choosing healthy options. I was able to join a high end club that provide a variety of workout classes, as well as indoor tennis, which I love, which helped me achieve my ideal weight and feel really great. Achieving financial freedom for me meant I could buy high quality foods and nourish my body in a very healthy way without eliminating options that were too pricey. Choosing the right healthy options and not worrying about the price led me to feel great both physically and mentally, as well as lowering my stress level. Next, imagine how your relationships with your family, friends and peers will change when you are positive, confident, happy and content.

What will this look like? Your confidence from trading will show in your demeanor, enhancing your relationships with family and friends. Your family and friends will love being around you and your peers will positively gravitate towards you. You will have the freedom to spend quality time and be there for your family, never missing another school sports day or play. And you will have the means to visit family and friends wherever they are located and as often as you like.

Your quality of life and happiness will improve as you build stronger relationships. And you will become a role model for valuing and building close relationships. Now let's dive into the trading journey. Like me when I started you were probably bombarded with many get rich quick offers through trading. Sales pitches that included.

Plan to make $100,000 in just one month of trading. Propriety software that delivered nothing but winning trades. Market gurus that held the secret to becoming rich. 500 videos to build wealth. And more huge but unrealistic promises that are not the reality of what becoming a successful trader looks like.

Well, let's go over what a real trading journey looks like when you actually put in the work, hit the barriers and learn how to be successful like I did. My trading journey, here's what it looked like when I look back at my journey to becoming a successful trader, I remember how things were very cloudy in the beginning. There was a lack of clarity in what to do to become successful. These are some of the things I experienced. Every trading strategy I tried eventually failed, even if there was some success in the beginning.

I spent lots of time and money on education and trading services trying to find the answer with no luck. Training education services I tried did not deliver what they promised and I would end up with no progress or refunds. I became very angry and frustrated and was treading water and getting nowhere financially. I did not have a mentor or support person I could go to with my trading questions. And a few of these things may sound familiar to you as well.

So where are you right now? I recall when I was learning how to trade and how at times it seemed almost impossible to get where I wanted to go. There was so much to learn that it not I did not know about trading. It seemed overwhelming at times, but I knew I had to try. I wanted to succeed quickly and look for every shortcut I could find to get my goals and achieve success.

I had many setbacks in the beginning until. I learned I was not alone and I had plenty of help if I decided to take it. That was a turning around point for me. After thinking I could do it all myself, I realized it was a foolish thought. Growing up as the oldest of 4 boys, I was expected to set the example and have all the answers.

I finally learned that in trading, that was not the right approach. I was able to get help from others and quickly progressed once I took that approach. As a student, you'll be going through a lot of times when you have doubts and question your abilities. That is normal in the beginning. Keep moving forward and you will be surprised at how much and how quickly you will progress in your learning.

Now you are on the road to becoming a successful trader, The road you are about to take will lead you to a unique place. You will be able to call the home of a very successful stock trader your place. It may seem like a long and winding road, but after you are done, you'll look back and see how far you've come in a relatively short time. What you will learn will be invaluable for the rest of your life and will be one of the best educational journeys you will ever experience. At the end of this course, you'll be able to successfully trade the stock market in a very consistent, profitable manner.

You'll be able to have a win rate of over 60% in all of your trades. It will take you to the financial freedom you seek to change your life in a very positive way. So how do you do this? Well, let's dive into what that will look like. There are 2 aspects to what I teach here in the academy.

1st, you'll dive into the quick win program. This is designed to get you using my method quickly and get you started with some incredible results. This is a quick way of getting to a place where you're getting results with trading. You'll learn the core elements of how I approach trading in the markets so you can start doing it, too. Here's what the quick win method will provide you.

You'll gain lots of knowledge and understanding of the strategy in a very short period of time. You'll be able to apply trading skills you learn to quickly find setups of profitable trades. You'll gain confidence in your ability to quickly identify winning trades. Your quick win success will help you attain more consistent profits in your trading. Your completion of the quick win program will be the first step for you towards building a 6 figure account.

You'll be on your way to meeting your financial goals to have the freedom to buy what you want, when you want without worrying about it. Once you've completed the quick win and if you end up staying in the academy long term, which I hope you do, you'll be able to learn all elements that I use to make money in the markets. Let's take a look at the full curriculum now. The first component will get the watch list dialed in. The watch list will ensure that you have good representation of the various sectors of the stock market in order to always be able to find potential trading opportunities.

It will help you stay focused on a specific group of stocks so you will not be confused about what stocks to watch. This gives you something you can review on a regular basis and add or delete stocks as needed to make sure you have a good list of up to date stocks for potential trades. Next, we have component 2, the sid method strategy. The sid method strategy will take you through a step by step process to find, analyze, and trade stocks for profits. No more wondering what to do and how to do it.

The Sid Method strategy rules will help you stay on track and keep you from making mistakes, such as trading on emotions. When you use the Sid Method strategy, you will have a high win rate and become a more confident and successful trader. Component 3, trade entry and exits. The trade entry and exit steps will take the guesswork out of 1 to enter a trade and one to take profit. You can get rid of the dartboard you're using for that now.

This will help you choose the correct position sizing for your trades and keep you from blowing up your account. And it will help you avoid losses while trading during a volatile market as well as in calm market conditions, which seems to be a thing component 4. Then we will go into component 4, selling options. Selling options will lower the risk of using options in your trading. This is really the equivalent of being the house in a casino instead of the gambler.

The odds of winning are always in your favor. Profits can be realized over time by selling options, even when the price of the stock remains the same due to time decay of option prices. And finally, we have component 5, a day in the life of a successful trader. This will give you some ideas about developing a healthy lifestyle which will contribute to a more successful trading record. It's hard to make a successful trade while you are in the doctor's office.

Learning to surround yourself with like minded and positive people will make your trading as well as your life in general much easier. Identifying, documenting, and regularly reviewing your financial short and long term goals will add to your success and happiness in life. And that will wrap it up by doing by going through this, you will have a comprehensive understanding of the different methodologies I use, which has made me consistently profitable. How to be successful using the method in order to be successful using the method trading strategy, it's vitally important to. Follow the rules and proceed in a step by step manner.

Learning any new strategy or subject requires time and discipline. This is not an overnight success to roadmap to riches. It requires time and patience, but the rewards will last a lifetime. Do things in a step by step process. Each learning module has a step by step process clearly defined for you to follow to get the most out of the lesson.

Next, do the practice projects. This step by step process, along with the practice project to each lesson, will help you retain the knowledge you gain. Make sure that you do each of these for every module. You should be open minded as you go through the learning process without second guessing or applying any of your own filters to the lessons. If you stay disciplined and stick to the rules, you will be successful.

You have to be someone who takes the Trading Academy's core values to heart how to be successful using the Sid Method Trading Academy Resources. 1st of all, submit your questions for the live sessions when you're unsure. Next, attend the live sessions to get the answers to your questions. Then get involved and post in the Academy community. And again, go through the course properly and complete the practice projects.

It should be a goal of yours to be a good student in the academy because it will bring you to a place of being incredibly successful. The Trading Academy core values. These are spoken about in the student progression plan, but they are vital for you, so let's go over them together now. The first one is process focused. This is where you focus on the steps that lead to results, taking each one with laser focused determination.

The next one is coherence. To be a successful student, you need to be someone who acts in harmony with their thoughts, words and actions. Someone who doesn't just talk about what they want to achieve, but takes action to make it happen. Next, we have sacrifice. You need to be someone who understands that to achieve your objectives and pursue further education in the academy, you must be willing to make sacrifices like time and resources to achieve your goals.

Then we have collaboration, you have to understand that working together towards a common goal gives you a sense of community and that your collective efforts will lead to greater success. Finally, we have the long game. You have to understand that success requires resilience and commitment to sticking with it for the long haul. Take these to heart and generally work on implementing them into your life. They will lead you to success if you do everything right.

With this being said, there are a couple of stories I would like to share with you that helped me build my character and core values. A lesson learned. When I was in high school, I had a math teacher that was very influential for me. He was such a respected teacher and role model for me that I pretty much did everything he instructed us to do down to the letter. He would tell us that when he flipped his tie over his shoulder that we should pay attention and take notes since that problem he was reviewing would probably be on the next test.

One day he was wearing out his tie flipping a lot. The next day, he announced a pop quiz as he passed out the quiz face down on each student's desk. He told us not to turn the papers over until he said so. He had a list of rules written on the blackboard. Read the entire quiz first.

Five pages. Work the problems you know first and skip the ones you don't know. Come back to the hard ones later. Don't expect to finish all the problems. Turn the paper over on your desk when you are done.

Everyone was so eager to start and rushed to get as many problems done as possible. Fortunately, I followed the instructions to the letter. Remember? So I read the entire quiz first. The last page stated, if you're reading this, you are done.

Turn your paper over. It was a quiz about following instructions. About half the class got A's. And half the class flunked. Fortunately, I got an A.

It was quite the lesson I learned that day, and this was the day I learned about the benefits that can happen by following the rules. Another lesson learned for me. When I got to college, I thought I was pretty smart, But then I had a rude awakening during orientation. The dean of engineering was giving a speech. He said, look to your left and look to your right.

Out of the 3 of you, only one will make it through to graduation. Yikes. I thought in high school, I was in top 30 in my class but had to work very hard to achieve that. Many students were so naturally smart they could just read something once and then they could pass any test on what they read. It came easy to them.

For me, however, I had to have a very disciplined approach to studying subjects and oftentimes reviewing the material many, many times before completely understanding it. The disciplined approach to studying I developed in high school was a lifesaver in college. The engineering curriculum was a full load of 21 credits each and every semester for all 4 years. Even my own kids, when they went to school, yelled bloody murder at 15 credits when they went to college. Lightweights.

Many of the natural smart students who did not have a disciplined approach to studying ended at dropping out of school. Yes. Only 1 in 3 graduated, and it was a very proud day for me and my parents. Finally, they said I was out of the house for good. Keep this in mind.

These two life lessons have really stuck with me and they taught me some great lessons. So keep in mind, you may need to work harder than others, but stick to it. It can pay off to follow the rules. The biggest barriers in learning the method. Now let's handle some problems that you're most likely to face as you learn my method of trading.

As part of the learning process, you'll face some big barriers along the way. I know I did, and it was a challenge getting through them. Here are 3 big barriers you might face and how you can recognize and get through them. At some point, you will gain enough knowledge before you finish the course that will lead you to think you can trade live with what you know. Don't do it.

You will catch yourself looking at a chart and thinking, I could have made that trade with what I know now. You will look for another one like it and be tempted to go all in on the trade. Remember to tell yourself any trade can go against you no matter how sure you are. Stick to the course curriculum until you finish. After learning the Sid method using daily charts, you may be tempted to use the method on another time frame, like 15 minute or hourly charts.

You may find on some occasions that it worked, but don't deviate from the rules. Do not add your own trading rules and end up with a strange beast of a strategy. Don't use your own filters to not follow the rules. You may see how other time frames may work with the SID method and be tempted to use those time frames. Don't.

I've already tried it and it will be more beneficial for you in the long run to stick to what works. You can overcome this barrier by always looking at the daily chart while specifically following the rules listed as in the checklist. There will be times when the lessons will be overwhelming and you may be ready to throw in the towel and quit based on what is happening in your life at the time. You may be thinking you'll never be able to finish with all the distractions. Don't give up and stay the course.

Focus on what you can accomplish in small steps and keep moving forward. You will get through it. Now this is your practice first practice project. Remember, the practice projects are one of the core ways to practice what you learn within the academy, and that begins with your very first one. When you click on this, it's a link to your practice project.

Complete the project as directed. Now the next step is to jump in the first module and here you will begin your journey. I can't wait to see how you progress and see the results you achieve. See you in the next module and live session.
